BY Will  •  November 26, 2020
Dr Neftalie Williams Interview
Neftalie Williams, Haarlem, Netherlands, August 2020. Ph. Marcel Veldman
In 2018 at the Pushing Boarders conference in London Karl Watson and Neftalie Williams sat on stage and discussed issues of race within skateboarding. In
the talk
Karl had said that he encouraged young people of colour that he’d meet to not have a ‘chip on their shoulder’, to not stay stuck in that victim mentality instilled by slavery, and to approach difficult situations with other people with chips on their shoulders (police, etc.) with a fresh way of thinking. At the end of the talk, an audience member (a British white male) stood up and addressed Karl by saying he was ‘shocked’ and it was ‘quite dangerous’ to shift the emphasis on people of colour to forget what has happened in the history of cultural colonialism, slavery and the transatlantic slave trade.’ He then opened his laptop and proceeded to read statistics about the rates of poverty being proportionally higher for those of colour to that of whites in the UK in 2007. Karl then replied: ‘You don’t have to forget what has happened in the past, but move forward and live in the present and be a better person without having that chip on your shoulder.’ But then what Neftalie said just after really stuck with me… I’ll paraphrase it: ‘you can give me numbers and give me stats, but you can’t tell me about that experience, because you haven’t lived it. Context matters. We should be navigating these spaces and figuring out what works best for us. He’s offering his feelings about what worked for him, it doesn’t mean it’s perfect, but people of colour always have the burden of not only navigating this experience themselves but also constantly being told how they should navigate it by others.’
Neftalie is a skateboarder but also an academic. He’s a sociologist professor at USC, the TM for Kareem Campbell’s City Stars, he’s done diplomacy work for
Cuba Skate
and
Skateistan
, he co-chairs
CSEF
, he’s the first and only ‘Ambassador of Skateboarding’ for the US State Department and honestly his resumé goes on and on. I’ve wanted to interview him for quite a while, but respected his wishes of ‘let’s wait until my PhD is done’. So after his dissertation was submitted (the most comprehensive study on race in skateboarding to date) and a few days after he was awarded the title of ‘Doctor Williams’, we caught up for a long FaceTime chat. And with everything happening in the world in the past six months it couldn’t have come at a better time…
Interview by Will Harmon
If
Pushing Boarders
was right now, in 2020, how different do you think that conversation about race and skateboarding would be?
Dr Neftalie Williams: I think it would be an entirely different conversation. I think people would actually be open to figuring out multiple ways to create change. And I think the thing that is different at this moment is that people are actually listening. People are taking note that they actually might not have the answers and they are letting people tell them what their experiences are. And so when we did Pushing Boarders in 2018, even though it was set up to have conversations about people’s experiences, people could take what they want from it. People thought they were open, but maybe they really weren’t. That kind of thing shows that they were less self-aware. That was sort of a post-racial conversation to get into the intricacies of things as opposed to just listening what the hell people were telling you their lives are like and what they’ve done in order to stay alive.
Yeah…
And I think that’s the difference now… People did not realise the amount of violence that was inflicted upon people of colour (POC). And we can say black people in general and people of colour broadly. So sometimes you get in these theoretical discussions without actually realising, ‘you’re going to tell the people around you to just keep moving, move on, and not let this police officer or these other powers stop you,’ because you know that if they get too angry their life might get extinguished. And that’s a reality; it’s a real thing. So anytime someone’s telling someone else to operate differently without recognising the violence that’s involved (it’s just a daily occurrence in black lives), it’s rather insensitive to tell you the truth.
Yeah I completely understand what you’re saying… That white male member of the audience has the privilege to question authority and skaters of colour don’t always have that privilege of being able to question authority without facing violent repercussions.
Yeah and that’s a real thing. Aaron Snyder’s brother
Greg
, who’s a professor and was there, said to me, ‘Neftalie, the thing that’s crazy is that they expected you to solve racism in an hour,’ ha ha, and he meant it. ‘That was the deal, you were supposed to have every answer to everything and people were supposed to walk away going like, “ok that’s what we’re doing.”’ And then sometimes people don’t like what they hear, but do not get me wrong,
Karl
was nervous to be in the spotlight like that and he is very aware of himself and his place as a black man and a black man raised by two moms, so he’s very aware. The reason I might have gotten a bit upset is that Karl has tried very hard to create space for POC and people in general. He’s very loving to everyone. So I think the context there was missing…
I mean is there a nicer pro skateboarder? I don’t think so.
Even if you didn’t necessarily agree with everything Karl said, it’s like, ‘Karl’s doing work in the field dog and has been doing that for a long time. So I don’t know what you’ve been doing, but he’s been putting people on his back and bringing everybody up.’ You don’t have to love everything, but you do have to at least recognise that he’s done a lot to help others and so I think that was missing. And that was the point that I was trying to get across in that discussion with Karl: that Karl was also navigating those things… And it was a different time.
Oh completely.
We’re in a different time now. Because to bring up the stats of the disadvantages of black people that that young man was saying, those weren’t real to people.
Yeah it’s such a different time now. In the past few months I think white people in general (myself included) have really had to take a hard look at what’s going on for POC, how they are mistreated and how systemic racism has affected them and it’s really opened people’s eyes.
Everyone believed we were in a post-racial moment and so therefore you can have these broader discussions about what strategies are best and what we should be doing in the hypothetical realm, but now people are aware that it is a real thing that everybody who they see or who they may know who has survived this long, thus deserves some recognition on surviving this long. The conversation we’re having right now, and that everyone’s having right now, is now based on a whole bunch of new knowledge that people didn’t have six months ago. You know what I mean?
Yeah…
We’re starting at a different point… We’re starting at a point where we’re like, ‘actually there’s structural inequalities all over the place and there’s so much racism in all these ways that are so commonplace, that we don’t even recognise when we’re perpetuating and doing those things ourselves.’ And that was not where we were at that time in 2018, so if we had that same talk again it would be very different. But I want to thank the Pushing Boarders team, because they were doing the first event that was ever like this. Also I want to add that I’m not mad at that guy with that question. He just didn’t know that this is who you (as a person of colour) have to be and how you have to roll when you’re around police, because you never know who this police officer is, what their background is and what can happen.
Neftalie Williams, Haarlem, Netherlands, August 2020. Ph. Marcel Veldman
I read in the
New York Times
about a racist incident you had with the police where you grew up, in Springfield, Massachusetts, that really had an impact on you. Can you talk about that?
I was skating through a church parking lot and I was stopped by the police. They stopped me and accused me of trying to steal cars. At the time I didn’t even have a license yet so I said to them, ‘I don’t have a license; I can’t drive. What am I going to do with a car?’ And were I not a person of colour I’m sure that would have been feasible, like I was literally there with my board skating through the parking lot. But, because I was there and I was black ‘I had to have nefarious motives.’
This would have been in the nineties?
Yes, and then the cop just straight up punched me in the face.
What?!
Yeah that wasn’t in the
New York Times
version, for whatever reason they left that bit out. So I was heading to my girlfriend’s house and I just cut through the empty church parking lot, therefore choosing to not walk along the sidewalk and the cops stopped me and accused me of trying to steal cars. I told them I was just trying to get to my girlfriend’s house and they said, ‘you don’t know anyone in this neighbourhood,’ and then another police car pulls up. Again I told them I wasn’t trying to steal cars and that I didn’t even have a license and then the cop just rolls up and punches me in the eye. Not only am I not doing anything, but now the other cop has shown up and they needed to have a reason to have stopped me. So now I’m pissed as I just got punched in the eye and I had no idea what was going on. So I’m not retaliating, but I’m trying to see his badge number and the dude says, ‘my name’s Rorowski’ or something like that and then says, ‘my badge number is 2119 and there’s a long list of people with the same accusations as you and nothing’s going to happen.’
Wow…
When the dude hit me he was like, ‘ah you did it now!’ and I was like, ‘I did what? I’m just cutting through a parking lot.’ So then I had to go to jail!
What was the arrest charge?
Attempted auto theft. So I’m there, I’m in jail, it’s ridiculous, my board’s gone, I’m jacked up and now I was facing a criminal record. So then when I went to the arraignment again they said, ‘he was trying to steal cars’ and of course I denied it, but they weren’t trying to listen and they set a date for the court case. So when it came time for the court case, one of my friend’s dads was a lawyer, he was white and he worked in that same courthouse. So he came and defended me; he went downstairs and said, ‘Judge, I know this young man; he hangs out with my daughter and her best friends. I know him and he is just a young skateboarder. I would not let him hang out with my daughter if he was the kind of man who was stealing cars. Your Honour I think this is a case of mistaken identity.’ And so eventually they dropped the case, but the prosecutor was still very hesitant to do this.
Wow so you’re lucky you knew this lawyer’s daughter!
Well for context, he got me out of that and if he wouldn’t have been there, I would have just been another young brother stuck in the system. And the fact the prosecuting attorney didn’t want to let it go…
That’s the systemic racism embedded in the judicial system…
Exactly. He was like, ‘no he must be guilty; something must be going on…’ And let me tell you, that case has haunted me my whole life. Once you’re in the system it doesn’t matter if the case is dismissed, you’re in the system. And that’s what happens: that’s how people get records.
So when we chatted before doing this interview you spoke about the
Strength
mag article you did in 1999 about black skaters, and this was before you got into academia and you were just talking about your experiences. So I wanted to ask you what led on your path to becoming a sociologist and focusing your studies on race in skateboarding? And was that decision at all based on your experience that night in that church parking lot?
Ok I would say on a personal level, the people I grew up with or the building that I lived in, the kids there didn’t get along. It had to do more with the way their parents were, they told their kids to ‘stick to their own kind’. But for me, skateboarding was the first space where everybody was so new, everybody (all races) was involved in skating and everyone ended up teaching each other and wanting to be together. And so that’s the part of skateboarding that I’ve carried with me my whole life. I recognised that was something different then, so even in that
Strength
article back then for Black History month, I still wanted to include Daewon (Song) and Gideon (Choi) and just be thinking about it as all of us, because I also assumed that I wasn’t the only person to have felt that skateboarding was something that bonded kids together.
Yeah…
So that was my original impetus for understanding that something special was going on, and also, the truth is, being black at that time you recognised where you had power and where you didn’t have power. So having that incident happen made me recognise that I was experiencing skateboarding differently, but the good part of skateboarding was that skateboarding was giving me the reason to be with more people than I would normally be with.
Yeah you meet so many different types of people skating.
Yeah, and in my thesis (
Colour in the Lines: Understanding the African American and POC Experience in US Skateboarding Culture
)… Ok those experiences were my experiences, but I also believed that they could be the experiences of other skateboarders of colour and it turns out that they were. So when I did the PhD, it was really recognising that something special had happened when I got started and then seeing if that was the case with other POC and also it stems from finding out that people always wanted to discuss it. They wanted to discuss those experiences. And also with the PhD, I realised that there had not been space for POC to talk about their stories in any of the literature in skateboarding and skateboarding in academia. So one of the things I realised the more research I did on race and critical race theory was that that happens all the time. People are always discussed without ever being the people who do the research. People always talk about marginalised groups, but they are usually in a position of power or privilege…
They’re viewing from afar…
Yeah and that’s the way academia has been – and that is not always helpful for the communities that you’re trying to assist or advocate for. The voices of those that are discussed are often not the people who are doing the research, which means you can have mixed results.
Neftalie Williams, Haarlem, Netherlands, August 2020. Ph. Marcel Veldman
Yeah you’re right.
And then we can have this discussion: people always come to me and say, ‘hey how come you don’t just say “black” in this particular instance?’ and I would just say, ‘I look at my role as to try to do what I can to help and assist all marginalised communities. I use the term people of colour.’ So people sometimes say, ‘how can you talk in such broad terms?’ I speak a language of inclusion because that’s my choice and I want people to know and understand that. That is my politics; that is my political stance, it’s to try to be as inclusive as possible. I can say my experiences are individualised, and I might be talking about individualised groups like when I talk about in my dissertation Dynasty Skateboards and Spencer Fujimoto and his experience was different than Kenny Anderson’s. Yes, we may all say they’re Asian American skateboarders, but their experiences are different; they come from different lineages in history that also affects those experiences.
I also wanted to add that the PhD is an extension of the wishes of Eric Stricker before he passed away. He was the editor at
Strength
when I wrote that article about my experiences as a black skater. Later when he went to
Transworld
, he wanted to do Black History month issue, but it didn’t end up happening before he passed away. The thesis builds upon our original work and intention and I know he would be proud of the research.
I’m sure he would be. So last week Jenkem posted an article entitled ‘
Black skaters share their experiences in skateboarding’
where they asked you a few questions. One of the questions a lot of the other black skaters were asked was: ‘Do you think there is racism instilled within the skateboard industry?’ You weren’t asked this, so I was wondering what are your thoughts on this topic?
Does the US have a problem with racism and discrimination? Yes. So is it perpetuated within skateboarding culture and the industry? And I would say yes, there are lots of opportunities for that to happen. It exists because it exists within the United States, and I think that’s a real important distinction and the guy at Jenkem messed that up. He wanted a binary, and he asked does the industry have this (racism)? Well there are a lot of people in the industry, so it doesn’t necessarily have that, it just depends on whom you are talking to. So the question should be, have there been instances where skateboarding culture and the industry have propagated stereotypes in ways that are negative? And I would say yes, there have been instances where that has happened, but also there have been instances where it hasn’t. It’s also been a space for power to be contested. Ok maybe now I’m getting too academic, but does that make sense?
Yeah totally.
All things are flawed and we have a problem with power and who has that power.
People of colour have been marketed by the skateboarding industry for decades and thankfully a good percentage of our industry’s hardgoods brands employ POC, but even still, how do we get more POC in the room in terms of decision making?
One of the things that is important is, even more so than being in the room, it’s just people getting the space to create and develop the things themselves. I say that like Paul (Rodriguez) started Primitive you know?
Yeah.
Making those decisions… That’s what’s good about skateboarding culture is that you can make the space for your voice to be heard. I mean you do need money, but the barriers of entry are relatively low compared to other sports. Can you imagine just trying to start a new NFL team?
Ha ha nope!
Ok so in June adidas Skateboarding made
an Instagram post
explaining their commitment to POC and how they’re taking active steps to make their internal staff significantly more diverse. I wanted to hear your thoughts on the efforts of the bigger footwear/sportswear brands involved in skateboarding on initiatives like this?
Yeah well that’s where skateboarding is now, it’s bigger than just the board brands. That’s where the budgets come from now. With the board companies we had more power and we need more POC in those spots, because overall, no matter what, that’s gonna make any business better. If you’re running a business in the first place and you’re not having conversations with women or POC or any marginalised groups, then that means your business is missing out. And if you do make space for this, your business will improve.
Now to see what the big shoe brands like adidas and others are doing yes, this is exactly what we need to see. And I’m very excited to see that people are having a moment of reckoning and thinking about how to move forward, how to support POC, and how to support change within their institutions: that’s really important to me.
So there are a lot of ad campaigns going on right now and my question is: Are you trying to make real change? And real change does not look like your ads, real change is who you hire, who is on your board, what neighbourhoods are you helping, etc. You have to think about what change really looks like. I don’t need to just see an ad or the black square, it’s like, ‘yo, I’m sure you could just help the POC who are working for you and give them a raise, let them tell you what needs to happen and actually listen to them.’ But I am excited to see when companies are publicly saying ‘these are the steps we’re doing to introduce change.’ I’m very happy when I see that and I want to partner with them and help them to continue to do that and I want to support the people that were already there who have been marginalised and haven’t had their voices heard and needed to protest in order to get things to happen.
While our world of skateboarding is not perfect, it is what we have, and so we need to do the best job with what we have to improve upon it because it is better than a lot of other things.
So for the past few years you’ve been living in New Zealand doing your PhD at the University of Waikato, and now you’re over in the Netherlands, has it made you think about the state of the things in the US differently being an American and viewing the heart of the Black Lives Matter movement from afar?
Yes and it helped me with doing my PhD; it gave me perspective. It allowed me to have perspective on the history of racial politics of the US. And it reminded me that it does not have to be this way. There are issues everywhere, but there’s a particular form and way that racism continues to live and fester in the US in ways that could be helped and improved. And that has to do with just an acknowledgement of where we’ve been and saying what are the steps for reconciliation that can help us move forward.
And when doing the thesis, one of the key things was, there was no one saying that they needed to vent, no one was mad at America and no one was mad at the skateboarding industry. And I talked to 47 different American skaters of colour from across generations from basically the 1970s until now… But the most important bit was that because America has worked so diligently to discuss both its exceptionalism and its time being post-racial I found that made it difficult because by not acknowledging that change has happened, that we weren’t all just perfect in harmony yesterday, then you’re not creating space for people’s experiences and to learn from them and move forward. So the best thing about doing the thesis was having 47 different people saying, ‘Neftalie I’m really glad that you’re putting our voices together, in sort of a collective way, because we haven’t had the ability to do that.’ And that’s important because you’re aware of the racial politics of the US, so you’re aware of when things are good in your own life and you’re aware when things are bad and you’re aware of how it connects to those broader struggles. So because there had never been something that connected those things, when I called people, they were very excited to talk in a way that they felt I could relate also because I was a person of colour who has dealt with these things.
And so this might be a tough question, but can you sum up some of the things you learned talking to these skaters about their experiences?
I can and I think some people will appreciate that… So what I was pushing back against on the academic side, was that people of colour had agency, that they were able to try to express themselves and that they fought to make the space for themselves in the skateboarding culture. And particularly that they were aware of race in the US because they were in the US, so it also made them more aware of what it looked like to have power and be able to have a voice. And what I first understood was that nothing was given, everybody, just like in any instance in the US, everybody fought for that space. Now everyone fought differently and in different ways in different decades, but it was space that was contested and that’s really important. And from an academic perspective, skateboarding is a site of those politics, in this instance racial politics or power, because it’s a site where people are together. So they all come together with whatever pasts that they had and now they’re choosing to do something within proximity of each other.
So the first thing I sought to do was push back against previous research, which framed POC as dupes, or as tokens, or just having no power or say-so in their lives or image. That was really important to me you know, as a person of colour looking at the way they were discussed by academics truthfully was quite painful. People are very quick to discount the experiences of people of colour. That’s just the truth. So the first role of the PhD was to push back and give them (POC) a voice and to be able for them to speak for themselves, rather than to be spoken about.
The second phase was going through and asking people, ‘hey, what were times that you felt like you were making ground and when were times where you felt like you weren’t? Who was pushing back? Who was stopping you? In what ways were you constrained? What ways did you feel like you had some successes?’ So the thesis really talks about the struggles and successes of POC in skateboarding culture. And that’s the deal, and this was on their way to becoming elite skaters.
So these 47 skaters of colour were all ‘elite skaters’ as in pro or sponsored?
Yes. I wanted to find out what it took for them to become successful. You’re not learning much about elite skateboarding or by skateboarding culture by studying kids. It only gives you a snapshot of what kids are like at that moment.
Well the elites have dedicated their lives to skateboarding. And they’re arguably more dedicated than some kids who have only been skating a couple of years.
Right. These are elite athletes, they have minds, they are not kids, they’re adults and they can formulate their feelings and strategies a lot better. Plus I shared all their stories from growing up and getting into skateboarding, developing their voice and to eventually becoming elite athletes. So I actually gave them data on young skaters, but I gave them data on young skaters that became successful.
And then also you were involved in that
study on young, everyday skaters sponsored by the Tony Hawk Foundation
that was mentioned in that
New York Times
article ‘How Skateboarding Can Help Fight Racism’. So actually you knew the data about non-elite skaters as well.
Yeah I spent a year and a half doing a whole other study at the same time! And I said in my defence (of my thesis) that ‘both groups were important, so I did both groups.’ And truthfully it’s not often in life that you do research where you get to bookend the conversation. I can tell you about Spencer Fujimoto and Kareem (Campbell), but also be able to talk about the everyday skaters now who look at the magazines, who look at social media and we look at what things they get out of skateboarding, and it turns out they’re getting the same things, which is they’re building community and getting to hang out with people who are different than they are and finding something that they love to join them. And those findings are the same in my dissertation, but we get to go further than that, as my dissertation research covers decades of data and not just right at this moment.
Kareem Campbell, 360 flip to fakie, Los Angeles, 2019. Ph. Neftalie Williams
Any fascinating tidbits that you learned from the ‘
Behind the Board
’ Tony Hawk Foundation study?
Ok this is one of the most important findings of all time! It was that skaters of colour, particularly African American skaters, felt safer and were judged less harshly by white people when they were carrying a skateboard compared to when they weren’t. The key finding for me and thinking about how important this was, is that black people do not have spaces in which they feel safe that often. So any tool that makes them feel safer, or potentially is building a bridge, or making them able to walk home without getting hassled by the police, or just to make it home in general after all the things we’ve seen happen to them… That’s fucking important to me.
That’s an incredible finding.
In the US, there are so many more skaters now, and a new generation where every parent, if their kids don’t skate, their neighbours kids are skating… So there’s more people skating in general, and this is something we found through the study: we think that people are also beginning to recognise that the people that participate in skateboarding really are just kids; they’re like everyone’s kids. These kids are not the other, they’re your kids, they are your neighbour’s kids, your nieces and nephews, they are kids from your neighbourhood so nobody should be mistreating them and marginalising them in any way, because that just marginalises yourself. Calling them names and ostracising them only hurts you.
Yep.
That’s been my focus, trying to get that point across. And I want to give a shout out to Tony Hawk, and his Foundation for funding the study. But also I want to mention his video game (THPS), one: everybody got excited about it and everybody played it, but it got people to see that there were more than just white skateboarders. Now we know this, and maybe we take it for granted, but that was a huge deal. How many times in the beginning did people say, ‘yo, you trying to be Tony Hawk?’ But when the game became something people were instead like, ‘I played the game and I don’t play as Tony Hawk, I play Kareem Campbell, or I play Elissa (Steamer), or I play Stevie (Williams) and that’s real change. I don’t think Tony gets enough credit for that move because the fact that there was diversity at a time when there didn’t have to be… Even if he wasn’t aware of larger racial justice issues or things like that, he was just letting it reflect what skateboarding looked like at the time when he was creating the game. And that had repercussions that aided everyone. The importance of that game to increasing the visibility of POC and particularly of African Americans was huge and is not discussed enough.
You’re currently in the Netherlands working with refugees for the US State Department right?
Yes… So we worked with these young Syrian refugees and we wanted to help them integrate and feel like they’re part of Dutch culture. The best way to do that for us, as Americans, was to remind them that they’re not in this alone. So we took young kids who had just been granted asylum here out skating and showed them that they could find a home in the Netherlands, and also that America loves them and supports them. And not only were they introduced to me, an American, but I brought in Belgian skaters (Fries Taillieu, among others) and also introduced them to the local Dutch skaters. It was really successful.
Neftalie Williams, Haarlem, Netherlands, August 2020. Ph. Marcel Veldman
That’s really amazing…
So yeah, I’m here currently working on some new projects to further develop skate diplomacy and to build upon the 75-year relationship between the US and the Netherlands. And then two new things have just happened, I just got added to the Board of Directors for the
Tony Hawk Foundation
and for
Skateistan
. So those are two things that I’m really happy about because that means we can continue to work towards racial justice and equity in all of the endeavours. I’m honoured that both groups recognised that this is a new day and age and that they felt like I could offer a valuable contribution.
Seems like you’ve got your hands full!
I have three things I focus on… I think about: How do we get the skateboard industry to understand and develop new allies and advocates? And how do I get the cultural institutions and academia to understand that all these young people who are skaters that they matter and they’re important? So that’s the second thing and then the third is getting young people to recognise that their voices are important and that they have power and how to use that in a positive direction you know? And change those various institutions even though they might not be that responsive to them now… My goal is getting kids to understand you should be going to university, even though these places are flawed, because when you get there you are the one that is going to be able to make them not flawed. You are going to be the change, just you being in that room… Just you being a person of colour and having made it into that room is a fucking accomplishment and you can be part of that change…
How can skaters not of colour be better allies to POC? And what are some of the best things we can all do right now to move forward?
Truthfully to be better allies is to recognise the instances in which you may have power or influence. It can be in a conversation that you can stop from going in a bad direction when there are other skaters of colour around, it can be informing, it can be in voting, it can be making sure that you’re caring about them as much as you care about yourself and recognise that there are differences in the way that we have access to power. So really being a good ally is going, ‘yo, I care about you and I love you, and so I want to make sure that the world is good and hospitable for all of us.’ Those are the things to do, so just caring and making moves like someone who cares. I’m not trying to give a prescription for everything, ‘cause the thing is yo, if you love, you’re going to be all right. Treat everybody like you love them and the way you want to be treated and when you see people not being treated correctly you go ahead and make that move and speak up. If one of your friends is saying stupid shit, you don’t just cut them out, you inform them and help them grow. Now not everyone believes in that, but I do.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  July 8, 2024
ASICSeuroHD (quadrennium)
Video: Chase Walker.
Photography: Alex Pires.
Words: Arthur Derrien.
This story starts with Victor Campillo ordering a
Late Nite Stars
shirt online as a humble fan (after watching their last video), and ends with me, head throbbing from the previous evening’s excesses, staring down at my new ASICS on the Eurostar back from their launch/prem thinking “dunno about
Sound Mind
or
Sound Body
right now, but ‘sound’ they most certainly were…”
Actually, it would probably be even more accurate to say that it ends with Dougie George telling me, “We had to sit the NY guys down one night to make them watch the
Lordz video
” and how their review of it was “The lo-fi beats full-length goes hard!” as that’s the last memory from their Paris/Marseille trip I collected before metaphorically putting pen to paper, but I guess it doesn’t really matter… At this point, all you need to know is that despite the photos you see before you having been shot over two weeks, the arch of this article will span over 6+ months.
Alan Bell, ollie, Marseille.
The first thing that needs acknowledging before we launch into any of this is that it’s not really common practice for shoe companies to sponsor a whole crew. Not to say it never happens, and when for instance Luidgi (Gaydu) did it with The Blobys and Converse in Paris it obviously led to great things, but it’s rare enough that when Chase Walker and his army of New York/Texas transplants took the internet by storm with
The Circle
, and that every other shoe in the vid was adorned with tiger stripes (a logo we at this point weren’t yet too accustomed to seeing in skate videos), it got people talking.
Victor Campillo, fakie frontside shove-it, Paris.
The second, is that actually listening to Victor – after his shirt purchase – when he started saying, “I love what those guys do, it would be sick to skate with them!” was a stroke of genius. You’d be hard pressed finding two more compatible skate gangs than the Late Nite Stars and his BTR Frenchies (who in turn also ended up getting put on as a unit!) and Asics deciding to orchestrate this giant group play date is one of the main reasons the trip worked out as well as it did. And sure there probably was a little bit of shyness when the idea was originally floated, but as it’s generally the case with most matchmaking affairs, especially those with happy endings like this one, common ground was quickly found and bridged any imaginary gaps there might be (i.e. Trung actually knew of the Marseille lot from their influence in the graf world), and before they knew it, flights to France were booked and it was on!
Jake Lemonds, frontside nosegrind, Marseille.
Enter Davis Torgerson: the Minnesotan mini-beast who burnt
that nollie hurricane
into our brains long before the term ‘viral’ begrudgingly entered our vocabs. He was in charge of team management on this adventure, and it was the first of the sort for him in this role. Because of this, he played a big part in helping me understand the dynamics at play, which led this mission to be as productive as it was, which essentially could be summarised for you in two words: no egos. As a seasoned veteran of the old clip-chasing travel himself, Davis had heard his fair share of spoilt whining on these types of excursions and a midnight plumbing disaster such as the one that occurred in Marseille could have easily been enough to place the trip in the “bro, I don’t know, it kinda sucked that trip yo” category if the protagonists involved here had instead been more “established” professionals. Or at least it could have been ample excuse for them to not skate the day after, having been up all night trying to contact emergency plumbers/the fire department in a foreign country, with 10cm of water splashing around their ankles. But not our LNS lads… Instead this lot firmed it and handled the situation on their own, not even bothering to tell their TM (who was staying in another AirBnB with the other half of the squad) about it until the next day, subsequently going straight back into clip stacking mode with smiles on their faces all the way until the evening, on practically no sleep. Something I find extra commendable given how much harder it weirdly is to skate when the lack of sleep is due to circumstances outside of your control rather than self-inflicted, but that’s a whole other story (see the Sour Skateboards coined term ‘vodka pop’). Either way, the main takeaway here for Davis, was that the bunch he had on his hands were as down to earth as they get and just extremely grateful to be given the opportunity to travel halfway across the globe to play on their skateboards between LABC Sandwich stops (the Notre Dame du Mont joint that sponsors Victor). I’m sure it sounds corny but you’d be surprised by how often that shit gets taken for granted, and the shared drive he witnessed, coupled with just how pure that passion felt when the crews merged really left an imprint on him. He honestly looked like he was on the cusp of a toast the whole time we were on this video call.
“Every single spot we went to someone skated,” he explained. “And there was not a lot of ‘hey yo I’m gunna do this so get ready to film…’, it was more like an older, late ‘80s version of skateboarding, where it’s just like a skate session that’s being filmed. It always felt so organic and natural, very different to being on a trip with older jaded pros.”
Akwasí Owusu, wallie 180, Marseille.
At this point it’s worth noting that although the bulk of the squad was made up of these two now unified posses, Akwasí was also out there riding up walls and blowing minds in his usual gravity-defying manner and that he enjoyed himself so much in France that he decided to stay out there in the weeks between the end of the trip and the prem. In the same vain, halfway through this thing, Jeanne could be heard plotting future link-ups in New York, begging Davis for another trip with the exact same line-up, and Dougie’s evening Euro skate video curation apparently not just changed the way Chase views skateboarding in our part of the world, but to some extent how he thinks about it all together. Not to mention that, as I type this, Trung is back in Marseille with the BTR lot in full French rudeboy holiday mode, either backflipping off some rocks in Malmousque or on some wild midnight graf mission…
Dougie George, backside nosegrind, Paris.
You can add up all the minutes of footage you want (and you’ll see when the edit drops that they had nothing to worry about on that front), but when it comes to trips like these nothing screams success like the lasting friendships that stem from them, at least for the people actually out there making us dream of our own escapades. For the people paying for them it’s a little different: it’s (amongst other ways) measured in the pages you’ve been flicking through, and how much space that shell of a man staring at his shoes on the train wants to give to such jaunts.
Nico Marti, kickflip, Paris.
No part of me is going to pretend ASICS isn’t a multimillion-dollar trainer company trying to get a piece of the skate shoe market, but I can’t help but feel like if their goal was to join the party and spark some curiosity in a slightly less abrasive, all guns blazing manner, they kind of nailed it. I’m sure they could have quite easily bought all sorts of big-name pros off other companies and bounced them around Europe for a series of awkward signings, but instead what we’re getting is two crews we’ve been rooting for forever, brought together and given the opportunity to mould this thing into whatever they want it to be. How could we not back it?
It probably also doesn’t hurt that their aforementioned slogan does actually resonate with skateboarders (myself included, once that hangover fog had dispersed and the hype injection from staring at these Alex Pires pics had kicked in): no matter how much time you spend staring at your laptop or how many delicious little ‘demis’ you’ve consumed, once those feet start switch crooked grinding, you will inevitably begin to feel sane again… That, and
how cool Joey Pepper looked in them in
Get Familiar
.
View Gallery | 12 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  December 30, 2016
Kai Hillebrand Interview
Kai. Portrait by Hendrik Herzmann
It’s not unheard of that some skateboarders have dabbled with a little modelling. Dylan Rieder, Ben Nordberg and Lucien Clarke are just a few that come to mind. Also there have been some skaters that are actors: Jason Lee, Steve Berra and Fabian Alomar. But has there ever been a skater that has done both? Has there been a skateboarder/model/actor? With three movies under his belt and moving into his second 3-year modelling contract Kai Hillebrand could be the one. After speaking with Kai, it’s pretty incredible he is where he is today considering how he grew up. As he sat in his Berlin flat I spoke to Kai via FaceTime about his humble beginnings, why he models, getting ripped off for his role in
This Ain’t California
and more.
Photography by Hendrik Herzmann
Interview by Will Harmon
Kai, where did you grow up?
Kai Hillebrand: I grew up in Ratingen. It’s a close town, like a small town, next to Düsseldorf.
And then how did you get into skateboarding?
I grew up in this neighbourhood, this like ‘social neighbourhood’ kind of style, so everybody was kinda poor. And my friends from downstairs, the Polish guys, they had a skateboard from their father and it was an old Powell Peralta board and they put it out one day and were like ‘lets go to the hill’. So we started bombing hills sitting down on the skateboard and then after awhile Tony Hawk’s (Pro Skater) was coming out and I had a Playstation and I was playing it on there and I wanted to have a skateboard so bad at this time. But my father didn’t have a job and my mum didn’t either so I was not able to get one. So finally I got a discounted skateboard with super shitty grip tape and the colour way of the graphic from the bottom on the top too. The grip was like just rocks glued on the top.
Haha, yeah…
So I had this for a while and then my dad got a new job and then after a while he took my brother and I for Christmas to Titus. So then I got my first proper skateboard and then I kinda went all in from there.
So how old were you then?
That was when I was 13.
Not many skateboarders are like you as you’re into modelling and acting as well. When did those things come into the picture? Was skateboarding first?
I mean skateboarding was first for sure. I kind of developed myself to get into the role of where I am right now, out of skateboarding… ‘Cause I was chilling with all these guys from my hometown and like just doing bullshit, like fighting a lot with people, like with all the Russian guys. I don’t know I had a lot of fights when I was growing up from skateboarding and I also got to know all my friends from nowadays as well. They are like my closest friends who I started skating with and they kind of showed me that there’s a different kind of way of treating human beings. ‘Cause I was literally going up to people and like punching them in the face because they looked at me and I was like: ‘why the fuck are you looking at me?’
Yeah, yeah.
I would just punch them because… Me and my brother were like the only German guys in this kind of neighbourhood.
50-50 grind in Krefeld. Ph. Herzmann
OK…
I moved there when I was like four years-old, and I kind of grew up with this attitude. There were fights every day. After every football match we had fucking fights. So some of my skate homies were from better neighbourhoods, and I saw how they were being really relaxed with other people. I saw how it could be to not be the fucking asshole from school. Because they were older, these guys were teaching me how to live my life by not being aggressive and punching everybody. They kind of moved me into this calmer place in my life and then after awhile I started skating for a skate shop. So then I started getting involved in skateboarding more and more and this was kind of the start of it.
I’m sure you were easier to hang out with then. So did these friends introduce you to new things?
Yeah these guys I was hanging out with did different kinds of stuff. For example like me, I was smoking weed from when I was 13. I’d be high all day and was always trying to get some new weed and like stealing stuff in shops and just doing bullshit and then those guys were like: ‘ah we are going to a festival. We’ll go there then we’re gonna do a little trip after’. And then you discover new places and you go see different kinds of people and you go and see how they work together pretty well… And then when I went to this festival I got scouted to be a model. I got hooked up with an agency and I was working with them and they started sending me to Paris and Milan, and to fucking everywhere… The first job was like a Top Man shop campaign in London. I went to London the first time for like three days, I was already 18 at this time, but it was kinda like the start of it. And then I was just like running with it, and I went to castings and I got my first movie…
So it’s all moved pretty fast then. What was your first movie?
It was called
Swans
. It was like a seedy movie; I don’t even want to talk about it. (Laughs) No, but it was a good start for me because the guy playing my father was this really famous German actor and I had looked up to him for a long time.
Backside 180 in Berlin. Ph. Herzmann
What was his name?
Ralph Herforth.
Ah I haven’t see that film, but I have seen
This Ain’t California
.
Yeah that was my second movie. Martin Persiel, the director, got me on that.
Do you know if a lot of people have seen it? Do you think it made you a bit more famous or no?
I think it just surprised my friends. In the beginning it was kind of a secret that we were acting in the movie, because they (the filmmakers) went to the Biennale, the film festival where everything is original from ‘back in the day’.
Yeah, yeah that was weird.
So that was kind of how they won the documentary award thing…
Yeah and what did you…
So they didn’t even write me down as an actor for the movie; I wasn’t even named in the movie. Like I was named in the end of the movie but like further, further down in the movie… It’s like people who worked on the movie and then it was kinda hidden. I wasn’t named as an actor.
Yeah and what do you think about that? Do you think that was kind of cheeky for the director to do that?
Obviously they were coming from a commercial TV, movie kind of situation… So they wanted to make it more blown up, even at the point when it was coming out that there were like actors in the movie, the controversy was like really good publicity for the movie as well. I didn’t even get paid well. And people thought I got paid good money for it, but I got fucking 1600 Euros for the movie. (Laughs)
Frontside boardslide pop-out in Berlin. Ph. Herzmann
Wow that’s not that much yeah…
So it was like a hype project for me… Well not like a hype, but like from my heart. I like skateboarding and I like the director, and I was really into the movie and I looked at the screenplay and I was like ‘fuck I really want to do this; I just don’t give a fuck. I’m just going to do it even for 1600 Euros…’ Like why not?’
Yeah I see.
But then I signed the worst contract, because like if the movie was going to play pretty well in the theatres… In the end I didn’t sign the right contract to get good money, like buy outs for the next year so I didn’t get anything (else)… Just 1600.
Did you not have an agent? Or someone? Or was it just a modelling company agent that didn’t really do anything?
Yeah I had like a model agent, but I did this job, like by myself. So I managed myself as a kid – as a stupid kid.
You know better now at least.
Yeah I know better now for sure. In the end I’m like pissed off a little bit, but on the other hand I’m pretty fine with it, ‘cause I watched the movie the first time in the theatre, and I was literally crying in the end.
Yeah it’s put together well. OK so you’ve got quite a lot of things going on. It sounds like you’ve got a lot of modelling work and you’re waiting for a visa now to go back to New York. I know that modelling is very demanding and so is skateboarding so how do you… Well, what route do you want to go down?
I mean, in the end there’s a good way to do both because you have castings and then you can go skate. That’s what I do always when I’m in New York. It’s kind of awkward if you see the guys in New York and they see you and then one day you’re in a kind of ‘skatey’ outfit and the next day you’re a bit more dressy because you have to go to a Ralph Lauren casting so it’s kind of like… In the beginning I had problems with it because I worried that people were going to hate on me because they didn’t even know me but in the end everything went pretty well.
Boardslide in Berlin. Ph. Henrik Biemer
Do you mean the modelling people or the skaters in NYC?
The skaters.
Really the skater guys? You were worried about them?
Yeah, yeah, but in the end, I saw Quim Cardona on a shoot.
Sick.
And he was just like: ‘dude, do whatever you need man. Everyone needs cash. That’s what I’m going to do here, production for the set.’
Ah OK, yeah set design. So you just approached him and you say ‘oh hi, I skate’?
I saw him, then I saw his hat, he had this little Rastafarian hat, and I was like ‘damn I know him’ and there was this other guy, like a tattooed guy from New York, he was on the set too and was helping him out, he’s was a skater as well, and I asked him: ‘dude, like I know this guy but I don’t know where from, blah blah, blah…’ So that guy told me ‘it’s Quim Cardona’ and I was just like ‘damn son!’
That’s sick.
And then I just went straight up to him and was like: ‘you’re a fucking legend. It’s an honour for me to work next to you and if you need any help let me know’. And he was just like: ‘do your thing and get that money, and do your skating’ and like… Anyway you need to have money to go skating. That’s also kind of the situation.
So who are your sponsors now? Do any of them pay you money?
I skate for adidas and I get money for adidas, like a little money, every month. Also I get a little travel budget.
And who were you getting boards from?
Um right now I’m getting my boards from Quasi.
Pupecki grind in Paris. Ph. Herzmann
Oh cool.
I got my boards from Beast Distribution for like half a year and recently the Quasi guys wanted to have an update from me every three months or something like what I’m doing and blah blah blah… So they lurked out on my Instagram in the beginning and were like ‘ah maybe he doesn’t shoot that much’ but then in the end it’s like whatever… It’s just my job and I signed a fucking contract to push my Instagram so I have to do this as well…
Ah yes your Instagram! That was another question I had because if you look at your Instagram it’s like a load of modelling shots and it’s really cool black and white stuff…
(Kai laughs) I have a secret Instagram nobody knows!
Ah OK, ha! Well the one I saw was ‘the banana cake’ one (
@kaiobananacake
), and I wondered, like if some people might look
at it and say ‘aw yeah he’s not really for us, he’s kinda cool’. A couple of people when I said I was going to interview you, I won’t say their names, but they were like ‘ah we met him, we thought he was going to be this kind of cool guy, kind of a dick you know, but we met him and he’s like the nicest guy ever’.
So this means like… It’s a good way for me I guess?
It’s a good way definitely. It’s just that the way your Instagram is could be construed differently from maybe how you really are… You know?
I mean, fucking that’s social media. In this fucking… I’m getting paid if I post something.
Oh, OK.
Sometimes. And I’m moving into this, not fashion blogging thing, but if there’s an option and I signed a contract with a freelance girl who I know, who is like my booker and she’s really into the social media thing. So she’s pushing me in my social media and she’s getting me jobs right now. For example, next week on Monday and Tuesday I’m going to post pictures in fucking colour because they give me money for it.
Yeah yeah. But is it always pictures of you always yeah?
Yeah that’s the worst thing (laughs)
Ha! More selfies.
I hate this, haha.
But when you post skate stuff it’s just you, and that’s just like your normal Instagram? You’ll just do that ‘cause you like it right?
Yeah.
Bump to bump kickflip in Berlin. Ph. Herzmann
There’s not much of it though, haha.
You mean not much skateboarding? Yeah I mean, anyways I’m not that much into like pushing myself that much into this direction. It’s not that I want to be like the ‘Instagram skater’ and getting like a million followers because of my skateboarding… Can I say that? Maybe I don’t know. Maybe I got the Instagram followers because of skateboarding but then in the end most people they unfollow me because the next day I’m going to post a picture of myself…
Yeah, but maybe they don’t understand that you’re getting paid for that?
Yeah and I don’t care. Like I don’t care about those guys if they feel like ‘oh I don’t like this guy and I don’t like him being a model’ or something and ‘I don’t like how he looks, and he looks like kind of a nause-up guy.’ I mean, in the end fuck… I just think everybody should build their own reality in their reality and not on fucking Instagram.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
If they’re hanging out on Instagram every fucking day then that’s their own mistake you know?!

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  September 2, 2016
Nike SB: Core CPH
Lil’ Hugo and Ville getting in there with the the big dawgs!
Featuring Bobby Worrest ,Hjalte Halberg, Andrew Wilson, Hugo Boserup, Max Palmer, Cyrus Bennett, Alex Olson, Oskar Rosenburg, Hallberg, Ishod Wair, Ryan Bobier and Ville Wester in Copenhagen.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  August 8, 2022
Mamma Mia, Bro
Big Shrimpin’
Photography by James Griffiths
Words by Korahn Gayle
I’ve been skating for twenty-two years and I’ve been going on trips ever since I was about fourteen years old so you might think I’d know all there is to know about organising a trip. Think again. Yes, I’ve been on tons of trips, caught plenty of flights, spent countless hours in tour vans, shared hotel rooms, sofas, and floors with many a fellow boarder, and I’ve been lucky enough to ride my whizzboard all over the world, but that doesn’t mean I know anything about organising a skate trip.
In my younger years I didn’t think much about anything other than kickflips and counting stairs. I was totally oblivious to the world outside of skateboarding until I was in my early to mid-twenties and even then, organising trips was never my responsibility.
It was a job for the TM or whoever the oldest/most responsible person on the trip was. Whoever it was obviously did a great job because it never even crossed my mind that lots of preparation and organisation went into taking a bunch of skaters abroad.
I had my own things to worry about anyway, like trying to work out which seat I can get in the van, or where I should place the stickers on my board, what colour laces to wear, whether I had enough sweets to last me until the next service station, what the next skate spot was, where my bag was, where my phone was, lots of really important stuff. Ah those were the days…
Noah Mahieu, manual into the bank, Sa Riera, Mallorca
Anyway, there was a point to that ramble and that point was that in November last year Colin Kennedy hit me up and asked if I could lead a trip to Mallorca with some of the younger Nike SB riders and make sure everything runs smoothly. He said, ‘you’ll be great, you’ve been there done that a hundred times’ and in my head I thought, have I?, but I went along with it and replied, ‘Yeah sure, of course, no probs I got this!’ So, it was confirmed, a load of teenagers were going to Mallorca on a skate trip and I was going to be the responsible adult. I needed to get planning.
I started by writing two lists. One list of things that I needed to sort for the trip e.g., flights, van, hotel, etc. and another with things that could go wrong when dealing with teenagers. To help me come up with things that might go wrong I decided to think back to when I was a teenager and the mistakes I made. When I was young, I was known for being a real space cadet. I was constantly losing things like phones, iPods, wallets and passports. I missed a lot of flights too, so I thought if I just imagine I’m going on a trip with teenage me then I should be prepared for anything.
Eetu Toropainen, backside lipslide, S’Arenal, Mallorca
The first thing on my list was ‘Contact skaters to check they can make it’. That reminded me of a time in my late teens that I am not proud of. I was at home one Saturday morning after a big house party the night before. My mate Boyo had just popped to the shops for me because I couldn’t get out of bed. He bought me a couple packs of Skittles, a pack of Monster Munch, about eight Wham bars and a can of Coke (the usual hangover cure). I was watching
Jus Foolin’
, the Fifty Fifty video on cassette. Boyo left me with my survival pack and went out skating. I felt like Bjork, all alone and so peaceful until,
RING RING
. I look through the cracked glass on my Blackberry and I see the words ‘Colin TM calling’. ‘Nooo’, I put my phone under the pillow and waited for the buzzing to stop. My head was pounding and I couldn’t care less about the pop-shuv tailgrabs Dan Wileman was doing on the TV anymore. All I could think was ‘why’s he calling now? There’s no way I can speak. I might be sick.’ The phone stops ringing and a minute later I hear
BEEP BEEP
. I took the phone from under the pillow and saw that I had a voice message. I left it a few minutes, as I didn’t want to be on the phone if he tried to call again, it would blow my cover. Eventually I risked it and listened to the message: ‘Hey Korahn, Colin here, can you make it on a trip to Barca starting tomorrow? Hit me up when you get this, cheers bye.’ Well, the hangover didn’t get any better and I can now admit 15 years later that I turned my phone off for the rest of the day and didn’t get out of bed. I never made it on that trip. Sorry Colin.
Vince Palmer, backside 180 kickflip, Palma, Mallorca
I didn’t have any problems like that with the Mallorca crew, they were all super keen to go on the trip and they sent their passports over straight away. Speaking of passports, I’d sent mine off at the end of October because it had almost expired (stoked I kept it for 10 years) and I was waiting for the new one to come back from the passport office. The trip was only a couple of weeks away and it still hadn’t arrived. I did a little Google search and saw that there could be up to a 16-week waiting time on new passports because of the backlog caused by the pandemic. I was stressing a bit now so I called Will Miles and told him what was going on and said, ‘worst case you might have to be the adult for a few days’, which he was cool with so that settled me. Cheers mate. So, after about six hours on hold, numerous phone calls and too many painful conversations with the Passport Office, I finally got them to send my old passport back so I could catch my flight and luckily it arrived just in time, two days before the trip. Phew. I was sweating it for a bit there. So, now we all had our passports and we were ready to go!
Eetu Toropainen, frontside 50-50 to gap-out, Palma, Mallorca
Another thing on my checklist was ‘Everyone catch flights to Mallorca’. That should be easy enough on paper, but I remember missing quite a few flights when I was a teenager so I triple checked everyone had the right details before we set off. I remember one time I was travelling to Tampa Am when I was 18 and I had a connecting flight in Washington DC. I reached Washington with no problems. I was waiting in the queue about to board my flight to Tampa when I noticed a sign that said ‘smoking area’. ‘What better time to go for a quick ciggy?’ I must have thought? (I told you I was a space cadet). So off I went following the signs until I found the little hot-boxed room. I borrowed a lighter from someone and drilled down a Lambert in about two minutes flat. After the head rush wore off
I stood up and strolled back to the boarding gate. To my surprise nobody was there and the gate was closed. I don’t know what happened, but I’d missed my flight. It was all fine in the end though because I called Kaspar Van Lierop (the TM at the time) and he was able to get me on the next flight a few hours later. Free of charge, probably… Sorry Kaspar.
Nils Matijas, 360 flip, Playa S’Arenal, Mallorca
Will and I arrived at Las Palmas Airport early in the morning so we could pick up the van and do the shuttles from the Airport to the AirBnB. I was relieved to see that the guys were much savvier than I was at their age, and nobody missed their flights. We had one issue with Noah’s bag getting lost in transit, but we picked it up the next morning, so it was no biggie.
I hadn’t really met any of the skaters in person yet, so I wanted to make a good first impression, so they all felt comfortable and safe allowing them to just focus on shredding and having fun. The Milano’s (Nils, Niko and Vince) had just arrived and were pretty hungry, so we went to the Burger King in the airport. I paid for the food and then told them to chill and eat with Will while I ran to the van to park it outside the barrier to avoid getting charged. I only had a couple of minutes left to get out of the barrier before getting charged so I started to run out of the arrivals hall but just before I get to the (very slow) automatic doors my camera (Fuji X100F) fell out of my man-bag and as it hit the floor I caught it perfectly with my left foot on the half volley (call me Robin Kran Persie) and it smashed into the automatic doors so hard. I let out a loud shriek but I didn’t have time to stop so I just grabbed the cam and kept running and I could hear laughter and cheers coming from Will and the Milano’s behind me. At least they were entertained if nothing else. I got back to the van and managed to avoid paying the five-euro charge. I checked the damage on the camera and it wasn’t looking good. The dial for the ISO and shutter speed was broken. It definitely wasn’t worth that five euros.
Noah Mahieu, ride-on bluntslide, Plaza Centre Salud Santa Catalina, Mallorca
That’s not the first time I’ve had bad luck with a camera on holiday. One time in Malmö back in the space cadet days, I was on a Nike trip with Magee, Mackey and a few others and I had just got a brand new camera. As soon as Magee saw me with it, he said, ‘I bet you lose that on this trip’ and the little bugger was right. I left it in a McDonald’s toilet on the side and by the time I went back to find it, it was gone. The worst part was that I had just taken the best picture I’ve ever taken in my life. It was of Mackey taking a slam at a DIY spot. He was trying a front blunt on this dry-ass ledge and he stuck and totally ate shit. I shot the photo at the perfect moment, just as his head connected with the floor and his board, feet and glasses were flying in the air. It was incredible. I’m so gutted I lost that pic. I might get somebody to draw it for me (*cough* Rob Mathieson *cough*). I hope whoever found the camera appreciated that pic as much as I did.
Anyway, back to the trip. It was 11pm and everyone was back at the AirBnB apart from Eetu, who I was just picking up. We were just two streets away from the AirBnB on this thin one-way street that had cars parked all the way up the right side of it. I had driven up it about four times now and was gaining confidence and speed each time. Well, this time I got a bit too confident, and I paid for it.
SMASH
I caught a wing mirror of a parked car as I drove past. I didn’t know what to do so I just drove off to assess the situation at the AirBnB. The back shell was totally gone off our mirror, so I decided to go back and see if any of the wing mirrors were salvageable. Will and I slowly drove back down the dark road until we reached the scene of the crime. Their wing mirror looked pretty messed up and just in front of their car was the back shell of what we thought was our mirror. Will jumps out of the car, grabs it and we start to make our getaway. Then I see another wing mirror up the street. ‘That’s our one, grab it!’ Will jumps back out and grabs that one so now we have both. ‘Maybe their one can fit back on, drop it out the car in case they need it’. Will drops it out of the window and I put my foot down. Unfortunately, it must have bounced back under the wheel of our car because as we drove off, we just heard and felt a huge
CRUNCH
! I had totally obliterated it. When we got back, we reattached the back shell to our mirror and it looked almost as good as new. We went back the next morning but the car was gone. I felt so bad about that. Sorry Mallorca local.
Vince Palmer, switch kickflip, Paris
Not the best start to the trip. One smashed camera and one and a half smashed wing mirrors. At least everyone had arrived safe and sound.I’m happy to say that I didn’t have any more major mishaps on the trip (bar one gentle little reverse into a wall) and things went smoothly thereafter.
Back in the AirBnB, everyone was getting on just fine. The Milano’s had dragged a bed downstairs so they could all stay in the same room, everyone was enjoying the food and drink that we picked up from the Carrefour earlier that day and the Supreme Beer Tower had already reached the height of Chicken Little’s head.
The trip was great and everyone killed it. Griff shot plenty of photos and Will stacked loads of footage. It was cool to see everyone shredding. I just sat back and watched the show and occasionally did a water or food run or a bit of ledge waxing or sweeping. Driving the van was always fun and there was no shortage of Trap and Drill music blazing out of the speakers.
I thought the crew were all really well behaved for a bunch of excited teenagers on a holiday. They were incapable of walking past an orange tree without breaking out in a full-on orange bomb war though, and if I was showing the menu on my phone to a waiter, I had to
do it fast because they were always ready to Airdrop you a messed-up picture that would pop up huge on your screen. Very clever! The AirBnB always stunk of Lynx because they thought it was funny to use a lighter and a can of deodorant as a flamethrower. We’d just be chilling upstairs then we’d hear a big
FWUMMM
and the room would light up with a fireball and they’d run away chuckling down the stairs.
The Milano’s were always trying to mess with Will. Their favourite line was ‘Fuck you Will’ in their high-pitched voices. They would drop that one all the time for no reason; I think it was a term of endearment because they love him really. One night we were heading to the local skate shop for a video premiere that Pancho (the best tour guide ever) had organised. We were pushing down the street, Will with a beer in his hand when I heard a SMASH! When I looked back, I saw Will lying on the floor with his camera bag on top of him and smashed glass everywhere. It looked awful, I thought he was gonna be sliced up. We all ran over to him as he picked himself off the floor like the Undertaker. His face was soaked in beer and he had shards of glass all over him. ‘Am I ok?’ Miraculously he was. He survived without a scratch. For about five minutes after that the guys were saying, ‘we love you, Will’ because they were so happy he was alright but that soon stopped and it was back to ‘Fuck you, Will!’
Eetu Toropainen, gap to backside nosebluntslide, Paris
Everyone was on one on the last night and someone threw up in the bathroom at the AirBnB and totally missed the toilet. They were in no state to clean it up so I did what any responsible adult would do and got scrubbing. Everyone was at the bathroom door retching and saying ‘it smells so bad’. That’s when I realised that it wasn’t only poo and fart that I couldn’t smell since getting Covid in 2020 but also vomit, an added bonus.
It was almost time to leave sunny Mallorca but Vince had some unfinished business at the Plaza, so I dropped the Milano’s there while I took the other guys to the Airport. Vince came through, stacked his trick and ended the trip on a high.
In the meantime, I went back to the AirBnB to check everyone had cleaned up like I asked. Did they heck! It was still a mess so I spent an hour tidying up after those pesky kids before locking up. I never tidied my room at that age, so I don’t know why I was surprised.
Once we’d dropped everyone off, Griff, Will and I went back to one last spot to get one last trick. Luckily, I got it just in time and we drove back to the airport, dropped off the van and checked in for our flight.
Korahn Gayle, switch backside nosebluntslide, Plaza Manacor, Mallorca
It was an awesome trip with a rad crew! Lots of lessons learned and on to the next one! (Paris)
The day after the trip I was chilling at home with my feet up, feeling pretty happy with how it had gone, when I got a WhatsApp message from the AirBnB host. It began, ‘Korahn, it’s a disaster!’ He went on to say how the house was a total mess and it was going to cost him 300 euros to get the cleaners in for the extra days of work. He also attached a load of pictures of the mess. Some of it wasn’t even bad like bin bags left in the house, and towels on the bathroom floor, pretty tame. Then there were pictures of a tissue paper splat on a window, the 12ft Supreme Beer Tower floating in the pool that I totally missed when I was cleaning, and worst of all a big scratch on the floor from the Milano’s dragging the bed downstairs, pretty bad. I felt really bad, as I didn’t want to disrespect the host or his house. I tried to apologise and explain but he wasn’t having it. He was pissed. I was also stressing because I didn’t want a terrible AirBnB review and I didn’t want Colin to think I was blowing it when I told him about it. I decided I had to bite the bullet and pay him out of my own pocket. I asked him to send over his bank details (which he did straight away) and I transferred the 300 into his account and sent a screenshot of the transaction. He didn’t reply.
Eetu Toropainen, frontside noseslide gap-out to fakie, Palma, Mallorca
The next day I got an email notification from AirBnB titled ‘You have received a review’. Uh oh, here we go… I clicked on the link and read the following: ‘Korahn and his friends were great guests and I look forward to them coming back soon ;)’ Plus he gave me a five-star rating… Money talks!

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 27, 2015
ÖCTAGON in Zaragoza
They used to follow the path they had been told. At some point, they were only individuals living within it, day after day, task after task. Then, they met but couldn’t escape. By that time, Zaragoza still stood as one of the main broadcast points but at the same time it remained accessible. The Vertical Hörizon dominated the area and individuals were holding on, building over and over. Rhythm became harder and harder and more and more of them were disconnected then deleted, one after the other. Geographic space intensified as the whole area became more deserted than ever. The point was to bring and broadcast their own features over there against the whole thing. They had to make it there.
Free will
was on its way; hope would be brought back.
Blood was the biggest question to me. I mean, how could there be blood? I couldn’t persuade myself with the idea that blood, as a material, could have been programmed too. Blood was too real. Blood is too real. The waiting time has been long since I started to think about this theory. I remember my first night as an insomniac minute after minute. Like every night, I find myself lying down in my capsule but not entering in to sleep mode as usual. First destabilised, I quickly felt like if I were born again. I could totally control my thoughts, my moves, my breath.
— Edouard Depaz
Day after day, I was converting more and more tasks, mechanically – living life as a ridiculous part of the crowd. As soon as we started talking about a solution, I couldn’t think about anything else. I felt like the only way out for every one of us was to focus on this whole collective energy around our secret project. I could feel anxiety in every single finger. Escaping from this whole atmosphere, this Vertical Hörizon – that was our goal.
— Joseph Biais
I met them, one after the other. I knew exactly where we were going to. There wasn’t any in-between. At some point, I realised we were getting close to a unique vision, this would be our own program: Radical Disöbedience. We suddenly became more than totalitarian. Unceasing Commitment. We all knew there wasn’t and couldn’t be any physical way out, though we couldn’t comply. That was our turn. We would make every single thing that could help us escaping from Surveyör. Our main weapon consisted in interpreting geographical space within an architectural logic. Free will was on its way.
— Valentin Bauer
We were always building. I was always building. I felt like I couldn’t stand this whole life. I understood I didn’t have any purpose. I wasn’t leading my own destiny. I suddenly got that I had emotions. I could even use the word “feelings”. As we were building higher and higher, I was digging my own grave. I was empty, already dead inside. I was lost but at my place at the same time. I needed more than data converting. I wanted to experience what free will would taste like. –
Bram De Cleen
More info at
www.octagon-exe.com
. All photos are by Maxime Verret.
SURVEYÖR
from
Öctagon
on
Vimeo
.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 6, 2016
Iron String – Carhartt in Andalucia and Gibraltar
All photos by Sam Ashley
Words by Samu Karvonen
Most of these commercial tours have a point or a task to fulfil so the investors can get some piece of mind on blowing thousands of euros on a bunch of premature snot-noses to go and roam around drinking beers and acting stupid with their wooden toys. Bless Carhartt for seeding light on this holy cause.
The crew for Sam to shoot was well and carefully picked on whoever happened to make it basically. Felipe Bartolomé, as one of the newest Carhartt riders, was our tour guide since he spoke the native language and possessed a rad character. Rob Smith joined the ride as a fellow Englishman for Sam. Joseph Biais was the company cardholder, Joaquim Bayle acted as a filmer and I was brought to the bunch as the designated driver and Tom Derichs was the guy with food problems. Not to go much deeper into this but if you bump in to Tom ask him: ‘How’s the worms doing?’
Tom Derichs, backside 50-50 in Gibraltar.
The plan was to stay a few days in Malaga, drive down to Gibraltar, climb back up to Seville and then hit the highway back to the starting point.
Malaga was nice, not many other things stuck in my mind about it. We did check a few other cities on the Costa del Sol. Very nice too. Yes.
La Linea was next on the program. It’s located next to Gibraltar and had a few excellent bars and restaurants to be experienced. Most of them were closed though, but according to our local guide they were really good. Skating-wise it had a nice bowl type of thingy and a well fun DIY park. Strong skate scene for a small place like that. Still to this day we don’t know why, but every obstacle in that DIY had a Welcome Skateboards logo on it and later we noticed that almost every local rocked Welcome boards as well. Marketing done right I guess.
Though our hostel was in La Linea, our primary target was Gibraltar. Short history of Gibraltar by Wikipedia:
‘An Anglo-Dutch force captured Gibraltar from Spain in 1704 during the War of the Spanish Succession on behalf of the Habsburg pretender to the Spanish throne. The territory was subsequently ceded to Britain ‘in perpetuity’ under the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. Today Gibraltar’s economy is based largely on tourism, online gambling, financial services, and shipping.’
Joseph Biais, frontside boardslide in Malaga.
So yes, it’s a British overseas territory and you need to go through passport control to enter the ‘island’. You will come across a lot of British tourists, street signs, bins and other authentic stuff. Bit of a cultural shock to be honest, but you get used to it when you start climbing up the ‘Rock’, get a glimpse of mother Africa on the horizon and gaze at all the monkeys hanging on people trying to pet them. The ‘Rock’ is a good place to look down and search for spots as well. At least we spotted a few good rooftops, which we ended up skating the next day. As skating on a rooftop spot behind some fences is probably not the most familiar thing for the locals the cops were called on us. The law came fast with flashing lights and yelling at everyone to ‘stop and stay still’ while they investigated and assessed the situation. Since we weren’t breaking into the restaurant next door the cops told us nicely to ‘proceed on with what you were doing and sorry for interference’. I wish it would always end like that.
Rob Smith, body jar, La Linea.
For moving purposes we were supposed to have a van, but due to some credit card problems we ended up with two cars. Over the years we have learned to ‘pay full insurance’ since something always happens. Or is it because you paid that insurance? Anyways, while heading from Gibraltar to Seville in the middle of a rainy night we stopped at a fairly remote cafeteria. It happened to be one of the best places we ate during the whole trip. The friendly bartender served us like we had known him for years. It was amazing food and there was an astonishing knife collection (who doesn’t collect small knives?).
Somewhere between the tortilla de patatas and the bacalaos young Bartolomé went to the car to grab his smokes and classically left the keys inside. And luckily our fresh rental cars were programmed to be self-protective and to lock the doors in a few minutes if nobody used them.
So after all that food greatness
Joseph Biais, frontside pivot, Gibraltar.
seven dudes stood outside around the car debating whether we should call the insurance company or not. We were at least three hours away from Malaga and it was midnight so the chances that the rental company would deal with us were fairly slight. But by calling them and telling the situation we couldn’t break the window and call it a vandal act of terrorism. Though breaking the window would probably mean a visit to the police station
the next day for insurance purposes. No one voted for that one either. Rain started getting heavier and talking was turning into shouting. Option C: Let’s find a wire (or a ‘iron string’ as I called it and got a good laugh from the native English speakers) and do as they do in the movies and lift the handle somehow. We got a wire from the friendly bar owner and with a little man force and Leatherman collaboration the wire was inching down the other side of the window. This was the time when we realised that even if we somehow got the wire around the handle (slim to none chance) pulling it upwards wouldn’t
do shit since the motion needed to
be horizontal, not vertical.
Samu Karvonen, ollie from ledge to tailslide, Seville.
While Felipe and Joaquim hitched a random ride to the next town to search for a professional burglar or tools for this trade the rest of us stayed debating on what would be our next move. The cops showed up and Rob asked for their advice.
‘Call the company’, they said.
Yeah… Still out of the question, they would never solve it tonight and we can’t leave all the camera gear in the car for the night. By this time Jo and Felipe came back alive but just with a heavier wire…
‘Any last ideas before we smash the window?’
‘The key is in the back seat and I could probably reach to it with the wire.’
‘Yes, but we will never pull the key trough the window unless we break it.’
‘But what if we push the open button?’
Meaning flipping the key around and pushing the button on a soft seat with a wire that was harder to control than one of those catch and release game machines where you have to try to grab a stuffed animal and move it to the ‘drop zone’ in a limited time. I’ve never seen anyone ever getting anything out of those things. But five more minutes, a few iPhone lights more and with some incredible teamwork we turned the impossible into ‘beep beep’ as the doors unlocked and seven guys started screaming and jumping in the rain. Lifestyle hammer.
Felipe Bartolome, bank ride in Seville.
After a long night of driving, a retarded GPS and few wrong turns later we finally made it to our sleeping quarters in Seville only to realise that Joseph had booked us into a Turkish prison. After only a few hours of sleep most of us awoke to the rain that poured all over the corridor. The flashes we thought were lightning actually were coming from the hotel owner’s camera, as he’d arranged a photo shoot in front of our rooms at 7am. It would have been fine with earplugs, but the only windows on our rooms faced straight to the action so it was pretty hard not to be disturbed. To top it off the owner was a chain smoker and our rooms were small and not that ‘airy’ leaving us either to suffocate on the cigarette smoke or our own farts.
Other than that Seville treated us well. Actually the whole trip consisted only of good spots, good food, good friends and good times. And even if it had been shit it still would have been ok. In the end it’s up to ourselves whether we decide to keep the good or the bad memories. Live the dream; don’t dream about it.
Rob Smith
Joseph Biais, backside lipslide in Malaga.
Joseph Biais, kickflip in Malaga.
Tom Derichs, ollie in Malaga.
Rob Smith, roll in, Malaga.
Samu.
Rob and Samu, Gibraltar airport runway.
Joseph and friend in Gibraltar,
Joseph Biais, wallie at Devil’s Gap, Gibraltar.
Rob Smith, frontside grind, Seville.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 28, 2015
Converse One Star Tour: Belgium and Amsterdam
The One Star World Tour rolls on into Belgium and The Netherlands…
Who needs Wi-Fi when you have balloons?
Signing at Lockwood, Antwerp.
David Stenstrom joined the trip and immediately began crushing it! Backside blaster for the smartphone massive in Antwerp.
Louie Lopez, backside noseblunt on the Jersey.
Mike Anderson, ollie from the bank to the Jersey.
David Stenstrom, high speed sugarcane.
Louie Lopez, kickflips over the hip.
David and Raemers, double front blunt.
High level product toss gurning.
And then on to Amsterdam…
The Amsterdam demo took place at ‘Olympiaplein’ a rad little park with a lot of flatland, luckily Cons hooked up some extra obstacles for the day… Louie Lopez channeling 1991 with this one foot tailgrab, whilst Ben Chardourne channels Super Mario.
Sage has got that pop, smith grind.
Eli Reed, switch 180 over Converse’s portable skatepark.
Tom Remillard jump ramp mute blaster.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 14, 2022
Giddy #12: Perros
Romain Batard’s latest Giddy instalment #12 is based in Mexico, Monterrey and Mexico City to be exact. It features: Axel Cruysberghs, Edouard Depaz, Val Bauer, Phil Zwijsen, Joseph Biais, Felipe Bartolomé, Rémy Taveira, Nico Gisonno and Fito Stone. Check below our article about the trip from issue 42. There’s an interview with Romain and nice photos by Clément Le Gall.
Phil Zwijsen, frontside nosebluntslide. Ph. Clément Le Gall
‘Oh look, a bunch of French guys in Mexico. Can’t wait to hear how much Tequila they drank!’ is what you might be thinking the text for this article is about. Well sorry to disappoint you but we decided to interview Romain Batard, the filmer on this trip, and sadly there’s no talk of Tequila fuelled nights or how many macaroni-shaped poles Val found to grind, but you get a good insight into the mind of one of our favourite videographers. So if you want to read about Romain’s favourite Giddy edits, his preferred camera setup, the life of a freelance filmer and more, continue on… If you want to hear about Mexico’s exotic nightlife, maybe just DM @val_bauer.
Romain Batard interview by Will Harmon
Why are your edits called Giddy?
Romain Batard: I wanted to start doing edits that would all be kinda different from each other, without putting myself under too many constraints, so I thought Giddy was a name that fitted this idea.
I’m guessing you started these after making your full-lengths, yes?
Yes, I just had finished two full-lengths in a row and wanted a format that is freer, less time consuming.
How did you get into skate videography in the first place?
I realised pretty quickly that I was way worse at skateboarding than my friends so after one or two years of skating I started filming them with my dad’s old VHS camera.
You grew up outside of Paris, is that correct?
I grew up in Le Mans, a small town in the west of France. After working a 9-to-5 in a video agency for five years, I decided to quit and work as a freelancer. I felt like I needed flexibility in my work schedule. My main client, and girlfriend at the time were in Paris so I decided to move there. So actually it had nothing to do with skateboarding.
Val Bauer, wallie backside smith grind. Ph. Clément Le Gall
What video/filmers influenced you growing up?
Josh Stewart with the
Static
videos, Fred Mortagne during the Flip
Sorry
/early Cliché era, followed by Takahiro Morita (Tightbooth Productions), that really had a more modern use of the MK1 fisheye. It seems like he had a big impact on fisheye filming.
A lot of your Giddy edits have specific themes, what was your favourite one to make?
I think
Giddy #8
was my favourite process. I fell in love with this song by Ryuichi Sakamoto, and found many versions and covers online. I wanted to edit them together as a medley, but didn’t have the skills to make a fluid mix. Fortunately, my friend Matias Enaut was down to help and even found new versions of the song to incorporate.
I also wanted to film footage of shattering flowers using liquid nitrogen for a while. It’s a process a bit too complicated and I would need to rent expensive high-speed cameras to capture it properly so I decided to use footage I found online. That footage wouldn’t match the VX though, so I asked Romain Duplessier alias «Thee Attic» to help me. He is a VHS and glitch machine maniac, and that could unify the video. He also found this weird experimental film that matched the vibe.
I also liked filming
Giddy #7
, the one with all the hands interactions because it made the whole filming process unusual. The ollie hand check at the start of the vid was a fun thing to film because Val and Joseph couldn’t really picture what the clip would end up looking like. Adding a little bit of special effects is a weird thing with skating.
Rémy Taveira, alley-oop fakie 5-0. Ph. Clément Le Gall
Giddy #10
you filmed all in LA, with the P2 tilted 90 degrees the whole time. Why did you decide to do this and what were the challenges you came across?
In commercial agency jobs, the content was slowly going from a horizontal to a vertical format. People spend more time on Instagram than YouTube these days. I thought that it would be cool to film one episode this way. We filmed a quick test with Marca (Barbier) at République and liked the result, so I asked Oscar if he could create a handle to hold the P2 sideways. The fastest way for him was to make it out of metal, so it has a bit of a Frankenstein look but it works well despite being heavy. Around the same time we planned this skate-vacation trip to LA. Filming a vertical edit suited this trip because I could use phone clips from everyone in conjunction to the vertical P2.
The biggest challenge was to convince some of the guys that it was a good idea ha ha.
Do you think this shift from people watching videos on Instagram more than on YouTube, or even on VHS or DVD has made it harder for people to make a living off skateboarding (because suddenly anyone with a phone is a filmer), or has this new accessibility actually led to more projects, hence more money being invested into people filming properly and more opportunities?
Before, you could make an income from selling hard copies of videos. That was a nice way for independent filmers to get compensation for the time invested on the video, adding to the fulfilment of finishing a project. But nowadays this is gone.
I believe it’s easier to show your video to a worldwide audience but there are also a lot more people filming. In the same way, there are more job opportunities in the industry, but you still need to be lucky enough to meet the right people.
Nico Gisonno, pop shove-it. Ph. Clément Le Gall
Do you make a living solely off filming skateboarding (as a freelancer) at the moment? What are the advantages of this over being a ‘staff filmer’ for one brand? What were/are some of the challenges? Do you ever turn down work? If so, why?
I’d been making a living from skateboard filming for four years, with commercial agency work on the side. I couldn’t maintain the rhythm of mixing the two so this year I’ll try solely skateboarding. The cost of life in Paris is high, so we’ll see how it goes. I believe being a staff filmer is more stable but could be a bit boring depending on the brand you work for. Freelancing is stressful at times because you need to get some projects going, but the offers never come exactly when you want. So you have to make choices but you don’t really know what is gonna come next. I’ve accepted too much work before, and had to turn down better projects that came later because my schedule was full. I guess you learn by making mistakes.
Giddy #11, the long one
. It’s pretty much a full-length video by today’s standards. Why was this one so much longer, and why not call it something else rather than Giddy #11?
I started filming standalone parts with some skaters but it didn’t work out with the brands for different reasons. The footage from those was in a pending state and Joseph (Biais) had the good idea to make a longer Giddy with it. There was no real theme linking all that footage except the fact that it was a basic full-length video. So why not name it: ‘the long one’? It just made sense to me to keep going under the Giddy name because it’s simply what I do.
Edouard Depaz, gap to 50-50. Ph. Clément Le Gall
On your Instagram you have pinned stories of skaters (who aren’t ‘filmers’) trying to film skateboarding (filmers contest). You pit two against each other and the Instagram audience votes. Out of all the filming attempts by these folks, who do you think has the most potential?
You can also clearly see who filmed before and who didn’t. It’s cool to see those that didn’t get behind the camera before. The remark I get the most is how heavy the P2 is once you actually use it. I would say Oscar (Candon) could be a good filmer. He’s not afraid of getting closer.
So one of the reasons we’re talking to you is that you’ve gone with the crew to Mexico for what is presumably Giddy #12. Who all went and where in Mexico did you go?
We went to Mexico City in early January with Rémy Taveira, Val Bauer, Edouard Depaz, Nico Gisonno, Phil Zwijsen, Clement Vanpeperstraete and Clem Le Gall.
And why do you think everyone is choosing to go on skate trips to Mexico these days?
Like Portugal, Mexico was one of the more open countries during Covid, so a few people went there and came back telling their friends it was a really nice experience. Rémy and Val were there last winter and enjoyed the escape so much they kept trying to get us all to go back.
Romain Batard, 2022. Ph. Clément Le Gall
What’s your favourite thing about Mexico?
Fito, our friend there, is the nicest and has a creative mind. He just started his skate brand called Jet Service if you want to peep.
Anything out of the ordinary happen on this trip?
The police are quite corrupt there. Every day they would see our group of foreigners and try by any means to steal money from us. It made it really hard to skate and film. But I think we also made the mistake of sticking too much in the city centre.
After CDMX we still wanted to get more for that upcoming clip and luckily I’m supported by Vans so I could plan easily to go back. We’re on a second trip to Monterrey with the addition of Joseph Biais, Axel Cruysberghs and Felipe Bartolomé.
Many have said that you’re amazing to go on trips with because you’re organised and have incredible stamina. I’ve been told every night as soon as you get home you capture all the footage, stick it in the trip’s WhatsApp chat, then it’s straight to the bar! This true? Is this just to keep people excited about being productive or are there other reasons for this approach?
Capturing, naming tricks and making a timeline felt like homework when I was a kid. I’d prefer to do it as quickly as possible to be able to enjoy the rest of the evening. I’d rather be doing it every evening because it gives me time to rest if I only have one day home before the next trip. On a trip, I just show the footage to everyone on the computer, but when in Paris, I just send a private link every day. I believe it’s rewarding for the skater to see his trick on a normal screen in the evening rather than filming it on the camera.
Rémy Taveira, wallride nollie out. Ph. Clément Le Gall
Okay for the filming geeks, what’s your favourite camera setup at the moment?
At the moment I really like filming HD 4:3 with the Sony ax700, century MK1 fisheye, and a VX mic. The camera itself is more modern than the P2, faster, and you have more control on the image.
I had to make a homemade ugly handle for the camera. Manufacturers made models pretty similar to this camera with a nice integrated handle but the built-in microphone is shitty and there is no good spot to place the external microphone.
You’re renowned for filming very close and tight. How many lenses have you smashed?
I don’t know, maybe five, six. It always hurts! But filming very close is fun; it’s trickier.
Magarita crew: Phil, Clem and Val. Ph. Clément Le Gall
And has this led to you altering your approach with the scarcity and high price of MK1s and Extreme fisheye lenses?
Oh yes! I was quite unlucky last year; I broke two MK1s in three months. That really hits the bank. From there I decided using Tadashi filters was mandatory.
Who are your current influences/filmers today that you admire their work?
The first filmer that comes to my mind is Sirus F Gahan. I love his work and him as a person.
Nico Gisonno, backside 180. Ph. Clément Le Gall
Yeah Sirus is the best. In 2022 there seems to be less and less fisheye footage in videos. Why do you think this is?
I believe it’s a mix of a few different things. Filming long lens being easier, less weight in the bag, Strobeck’s influence, and the price of the good fisheyes skyrocketing.
You made a tutorial ‘inviting’ others to replicate the HD/4:3 MK1 setup… Like, why? So many filmers would have chosen to keep that shit to themselves to make their footage stand out. Why did you choose to share it?
The primary reason for this tutorial is that I have been cool guy-ed so many times while asking other filmers for advice when I was younger. There are also so many camera options but only a few setups look good. And it hurts me seeing a skater I love filmed with a bad DSLR setup. If sharing these kinds of geekeries can up the general quality of videos, it’s a win-win.
Edouard Depaz, Ollie. Ph. Clément Le Gall

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 17, 2023
Bjarne og Gabriel
From catching glimpses of them in Pekka’s full-lengths (
Jadda
,
Skamnice
) and the Vans
Scandis
edit, to their shared
Gabriel og Bjarne
part we hosted last year it’s safe to say Gabriel Bjørsvik and Bjarne Tjøtta have been on our radar for a while now. A decision was made that it was about time we learned a bit more about these Norwegians, so our own Sam Ashley headed to Oslo this spring to get some pics of the two. Whilst there Sam attended a local trivia night with the guys. The host of the trivia night, Fredrik Perry,
made quite an impression: ‘I couldn’t understand any of it really, I just had a gut feeling he’d be good for this, like I could tell he was a piss-taker…’ Sam said.
So it was decided: Perry would interview Bjarne and Gabriel for us. We didn’t know much about the guy, but Pekka vouched for him, so we reached out…  After a few back and forth DMs Perry obliged and said he’d do his best. His last DM was this: Will Free regret handing an interview over to a snowboarder? Only time will tell 😈
Oh no, had we made a tragic mistake? Had we been hoodwinked? Read on and judge for yourselves.
–Will Harmon
Interview by Fredrik Perry
Gabriel: Oh, now I’m regretting wearing shorts… But I’m fine…
Fredrik: What are your regrets in life, Gabriel? Any regrets?
Gabriel: Hmm, any regrets…
Or are you one of those guys who are like, ‘no regrets dude!’, ‘cause that’s bullshit.
Bjarne: Of course you have regrets.
Gabriel: Yeah, I regret my choice of study a little, even though I don’t ‘cause they were good studies.
What did you study?
Gabriel: I studied Culture and Communications, then I studied Anthropology, which I thought was very cool and interesting. And then I started a Master’s degree in Anthropology, but there was way too much school and not enough shred.
That kinda sounds like something you’d regret.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha…
I’m kidding!
Gabriel: So I quit that, and then I’ve worked a lot in school since then so I should’ve just studied to be a teacher so I could’ve made more money.
And now you’re regretting wearing shorts, which is classic Norwegian. Oh, it’s sunny out let’s go get a beer, but it’s March and you’re not wearing a jacket and the sun sets and it gets fucking cold and everybody gets sick.
Gabriel: I did it last month at Mølla, so stupid.
Bjarne, backside 180 to switch frontside crooked grind, Oslo. Ph. Sam Ashley
So, hi boys. Where are we now?
Bjarne: Torshov.
And why are we here?
Bjarne: Because we’ve been shredding.
Gabriel: Because there’s a cool skatepark here where everybody meets up and skates, and Bjarne just built a spot.
Bjarne: I just built a curb, so we’re a little delayed…
You also said that if the park was too crowded we could go to one of your two balconies, which I thought was a hilarious rich flex.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha, it’s not a rich flex at all, ‘cause all the balconies are accessible for everyone in the building.
Okay, ‘cause I was like, ‘Who the fuck has two balconies!?’
How come a couple of blonde, good looking guys, with baggy shorts and tre flips on lock, who happen to be passionate and sociable – are single?
Bjarne: Oh wow. You wanna go first, Gabriel?
Gabriel: Ha ha well, we’ve both been in pretty long relationships, so just chilling with that stuff at the moment.
Bjarne: I skate too much, ha ha.
You guys going on dates though?
Bjarne: Yeah, I was on a date last night actually.
And you’re on the apps?
Bjarne: Yeah, you’ll find me on Tinder.
Gabriel: I ́m pretty bad at that stuff these days, but you can find me also if you look.
What does your bio say?
Gabriel: Instagram @
Bjarne: In mine it says: A nice guy that can fix everything.
Any skate photos on there?
Gabriel: Yes.
Bjarne: Of course!
Why is that an of course?
Bjarne: Because even though they might not get that it’s a hard trick, they usually find it pretty cool.
So you think it works?
Bjarne: Yeah.
So then women, in your case, you think they’re attracted to skaters?
Bjarne: Sometimes there are really hot chicks who are attracted to skaters.
Gabriel: Ha ha.
Gabriel, gap to backside lipslide, Oslo. Ph. Sebastian Bjerkvik
Okay, ‘cause I thought the era where skaters are hot and cool was over? I heard it from someone who said that
the cool kids in school aren’t the skaters anymore – it’s the rappers.
Bjarne: Oh, okay, ha ha.
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Like seventh grade. Since you work at a school, can you confirm this, Gabriel?
Gabriel: So the kids are very cool these days, a little too cool for their own good at times. And I work with some cool skater kids. I don’t know if they’re actually cool, but I think they’re cool.
What about the rappers?
Gabriel: There’s not that many of them that rap yet. But they love walking around with Spotify all the time and flex what they’re listening to. And that’s a lot of crap.
Did you tell your date that you were going to build a curb at Torshov today?
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Bjarne: No, but I told her what it’s like to be a skateboarder, like how accessible things are when it comes to travel and stuff. Like if I go somewhere in Europe I’ll always have a spot I can crash.
That’s very true. Where’s a place you wouldn’t have a place to stay with a homie?
Bjarne: Paris, maybe?
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Anyways, good to get the obvious start about dating out of the way.For the readers who aren’t familiar with you, let’s give them your full name, age and where you’re from.
Bjarne: Bjarne Tjøtta, 30 years old and I’m from Bryne, Norway.
Gabriel: My name is Gabriel Sebastian Bjo/rsvik, I am from Nesodden, a small place just outside of Oslo, Norway and I’m 26 years old.
What’s it like to grow up in these places? What’s up with Bryne?
Bjarne: Bryne is a small town. It’s not as rough to grow up there as I would say it could be in Oslo, more soft, but at the same time like rural rough. People drink a lot etc., but I managed to stay away from that stuff when I was young because of skating.
Bjarne, ride-on 50-50 to wallie out, Oslo. Ph. Sam Ashley
So how did you discover skating in a place like that?
Bjarne: Through my big brother. We built a rail at this junction on a patch of asphalt on the side of the road. We just stacked wooden planks on top of each other, cut angles in the middle of the top one, rested a sign post on top of it and skated it as a rail. We just had to move the post back every try because it would slide every time
we hit it.
Any other skaters we’d know of from Bryne?
Bjarne: Reffi? There are some local legends but I don’t think anyone would know. Hmm. Maybe the biggest legend is this guy Kristian Steinmoen. I learned all my flip tricks from him.
You sound a little hesitant talking about good skaters from Bryne. So here is my question: Does that mean you’re the best skater of all time from Bryne?
Bjarne: Ha ha ha, fuck.
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Bjarne. Fuck. Yes. Ha ha ha.
Ha ha, you HAD to say yes, if not you’d be a silly billy. Imagine that. The best skater that tiny town has ever seen.
That being said, the southwest region of Rogaland where Bryne lies has done pretty well raising amazing skaters. We’ve got Gustav Tønnesen from Egersund.
Bjarne: Yeah, and Heitor Da Silva from Haugesund.
Eirik Svendsen. Steffen Austerheim. And the legend Freddy Austbø.
Bjarne: And you got Fredrik Nærland. Kristian Nærland. They’ve done well.
Gabriel: Eirik Ballo. Haugesund.
What about Nesodden, Gabriel?
Gabriel: It’s like a cabin place just outside of Oslo. You can take the boat for 20 minutes from Oslo. It’s common to live there and work in Oslo, or like me go to school in Oslo, so I took the boat every day.
It sounds kinda idyllic to take a boat to school. How did you discover skating over there?
Gabriel: I had gotten a toy store type board one time, and I never used it. But I got bored one day and tried it outside and it was… fun. Ha ha.
Bjarne: Ha ha.
Gabriel, gap to frontside tailslide, Oslo. Ph. Sam Ashley
You hadn’t seen people skate, you just got it, ignored it, tried it.
Gabriel: I saw skating in the city ‘cause I was there a lot, and I’d often see people skate at Rådhuset since that ́s where the boat would come in. Sometimes I’d just sit and watch.
Did you know anyone there that skated?
Gabriel: Not at first, but when I started skating I did. A friend of my dad knew Jan Inge Janbu, so he was the first good skater I got a skate date with. He actually referred to that the other day and was like, ‘Do you remember that?’. Of course I remembered, it was a big deal, I was 12 or something.
What did your parents think when you got hooked on skating?
Bjarne: In the beginning they liked it. But then after a while they noticed that it was all I wanted to do, so they told me that I needed an education or a certificate or something. My dad asked me when the hell I was gonna put away the plank and get a real job, ha ha. But they’re right, it’s good to have something to fall back on.
And you got your certificate.
Bjarne: I did. In glass. So I work with glass, assemble windows, showers, interior glass, mirrors, all sorts.
And break glass.
Bjarne: And break glass. Ha ha.
‘Cause that’s all I know from your job is when you break glass on your story. How does that feel?
Bjarne: It’s the best. Tempered glass. It just smashes into a thousand pieces.
Gabriel?
Gabriel: My parents were always supportive about it. My dad took the initiative to build an indoor park at Nesodden with other parents. And my mom was always very interested. My dad tries to name tricks when I’m watching videos like, ‘Oh, was that a big flip?’.
That’s sweet. My dad would do the same when I watched snowboarding, ‘Was that a loop de loop?’.
(We all smile and giggle)
Bjarne, you went to the Malmö skate school, Bryggeriet. If you left a Yelp review what would it say?
Bjarne: 10 out of 10. It’s the best concept if you’re going to put skating into schooling. Skate and have fun, but set some goals. Like tricks and things you’re obsessed about.
I talked to Steffen Austerheim who you lived with in Malmö.
Bjarne: Hehehe…
Bjarne, switch ride-on 50-50, Oslo. Ph. Sam Ashley
He said it was all about skating, and that there wasn’t time for anything else. Like anything. So you had to get creative…
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha, no, fuck. Steffen, I’m gonna get you back, ha ha.
What am I referring to now, Bjarne?
Bjarne: You know exactly what it is. Holy fuck, ha ha.
He said that you had bought a pocket pussy, and that when he came home to the apartment the pocket pussy would just be laying around all over the place.
(At this point we’re all laughing really hard, and Bjarne can barely talk).
Like it was just left in random places in the apartment.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha, yeah it would often be left in the bathroom to dry, ‘cause we had a heater for the towels.
He said one day when he came home it was in the sink and he told you to move it, so you put it on a heater where it melted in half.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha, yeah. But I have another story on that. Karsten, Petter and that crew came to visit us, and I noticed the thing was really sticky so I threw it up on the ceiling where everybody was sleeping. It got stuck up there, we were all dying laughing.
There it is.
Bjarne: But I have to add, Steffen bought a pocket pussy too! And he was going to sell it to Jaran (Jacobsen). Jaran came home with us one day, and that fucker used Steffen’s pocket pussy without telling him. So Steffen used it again after him, ha ha ha.
They fucked the same pocket pussy without knowing?
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Did Jaran tell Steffen?
Bjarne: No, no. Jaran thought I told Steffen but I forgot, and he told me he wasn’t stoked on it anymore so I didn’t think he was gonna use it. When Steffen found out he got so fucking bummed, ha ha. He didn’t know how to get rid of it so he just went outside and threw it into a field.
Ha ha, holy shit.
In Malmö you’re just passing the pocket pussy around, huh.
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Bjarne, wall bash, Hokksund. Ph. Sebastian Bjerkvik
Okay, moving on. Bjarne, what’s the deal with the DIY thing?
Bjarne: The thing is that Oslo has an insane amount of spots, but a lot of them are only almost-spots. A little patch of concrete here or a little transition there can make it a dope spot. It doesn’t take much, a sack of concrete or a little crack fill, or something to make kinks slide better.
What’s the best feature you’ve built?
Bjarne: A wallride spot in Stavanger with a 90-degree turn, which I made transitions to, so you could hit it almost as a pool corner. That’s the sickest one I’ve made.
Gabriel: Tjøtta Side, right?
Bjarne: Yeah!
What about your biggest build failure?
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Bjarne: It’s a granite bench with a bunch of cracks in the run-up. We were gonna patch them up, but we patched it all wrong, so when we were gonna go skate it the run-up was totally in the wrong spot. Spent a lot of time on it and it wasn’t even skateable.
Gabriel: I started laughing ‘cause I thought you meant the green ledge that Magnus Bordewick was gonna fix. He took out a bunch of shit from the crack and tried to make it even, but he just made the crack even bigger and nobody has skated it since, ha ha.
Antiz skateboards. How did that come about?
Bjarne: I was randomly in Gjøvik one weekend when there was a contest called Gjøvik Open going on. I went down to skate it just for fun. I met Gabriel Engelke there and we sessioned the bowl, and after he asked me if I had a board sponsor. He reached out to them, and then three weeks later I went to Cyprus on a trip with Antiz without knowing any of them. Then they were like, ‘you’re on’.
So you weren’t on before the trip?
Bjarne: No, but I got on during the trip. That’s the best way to do it.
You just had to throw a Bjarne demo?
Bjarne: No, they already knew I could skate so they just wanted to know if I’m a nice person.
You’re 26 and 30. You’re not old but you’re not young either. I feel like you’ve both been in the game for a long time. And I’ve been thinking, when are these guys gonna blow the fuck up? So, when are you guys gonna blow
the fuck up?
Gabriel: I’ve never thought I’m gonna blow up or have interviews anywhere. I started skating so much later than everybody else I knew that skated, so I just tried to skate as hard as I could to catch up.
Have you had any ambitions within skateboarding?
Bjarne: I always wanted to work, ‘cause I like to have a job to go to, but my biggest dream in skating is to experience the world and get to travel and have my outlet. Not to be done with it, but to have done it. Heath vibes. Ha ha ha… Not be some old dude begging to skate you know?
Gabriel: I always had a little ambition to get as far as I can, try this thing and see if it works.
Gabriel, backside 180 kickflip, Oslo. Ph. Sebastian Bjerkvik
Do you have a skate dream?
Gabriel: That’s a good question. The skate dream used to be to go on a trip that I didn’t pay for. But then that happened, and after that it’s been like, what if I could JUST focus on skating?
So to get paid.
Bjarne: You want that ‘cause it gives you freedom to focus on skating. Both of us have jobs and need to get the daily stuff out of the way first before skating.
Gabriel: Yeah, I’m working full-time all of a sudden, which was nice during the winter, but now it sucks even though it’s a good job. It’s hard to reset from working 8-4 with a bunch of kids and yelling all day, to getting clips on a sketchy spot. It doesn’t always work out.
What’s the motivation then? What makes you want to go DO this thing.
Bjarne: I can’t stop thinking about it.
Gabriel: Because it’s fucking fun.
Bjarne: Mad fun. The best feeling in the world is to land a trick.
But is it fun to slam and all that?
Gabriel: But it’s a part of the process.
Bjarne: In the context of drugs, drugs are just a shortcut to the high. I don’t know but getting a hammer probably feels like doing 15 lines of coke, ha ha. Only that you actually worked for it.
And you get street cred.
Bjarne: And that, ha ha.
So how far would you go to live the skate dream? Would you ride for an energy drink sponsor?
Bjarne: No. I’ve thought a lot about that actually.
Gabriel, backside smith grind, Oslo. Ph. Sam Ashley
Same, because it’s very common in snowboarding. And there are dope ‘core’ skaters that ride for energy drinks.
Gabriel: Yeah.
Bjarne: The only dope skater that does that is that OG dude from NYC.
Gabriel: Zered Bassett. I don’t think he’s on Red Bull anymore but he was one of the first ones.
What about a wack shoe brand for a lot of cash that lets you take one year off from work?
Gabriel: No, I think I’d lose my spark. Just look down and get bummed.
Bjarne: I think so too.
Gabriel, who would win in a wrestling match between Bjarne and Karsten Kleppan? And Bjarne, who would win in Trivial Pursuit between Gabriel and Karsten Kleppan?
Gabriel: Bjarne looks really strong and is a beast in the gym, but Karsten is strong also and very competitive, never gives up… Bjarne says they’ve wrestled before… But I think Bjarne would win.
Bjarne: Gabriel would win Trivial Pursuit.
Those are exactly the answers I wanted! Perfect.
Gabriel: Let’s do a wrestling and Trivial Pursuit night to find out.
That’s a good idea. Maybe we can do it before the mag comes out. Has your skating changed in the last five years? If so, how?
Gabriel: For me, definitely. I used to think everything was cool.
Bjarne: And then you started hanging out with Pekka, ha ha.
Gabriel: And then I met Pekka. The way I look at things now, I kinda feel like he shaped me from being wack to a little cooler. Not that I would consider myself cool, but when I look at footy from five years ago it’s not something I’m especially stoked on compared to now. When I started skating I was just like, ‘there are so many tricks, I’ve got to learn them all; flip way too much and spin way too much.’ It was really refreshing when I found out that I don’t have to do all that stuff. It can be simpler and cooler.
These are some words I wrote about your skating: Flip in flip out. Quick. Tries everything. Pop. Element of surprise.
Gabriel: Mm.
We’ll talk about the change in your skating too, Bjarne, but this kinda leads us into that you have this feature together, you made a part together, but you skate so differently.
Bjarne: Mm.
Bjarne – Salads, smiths, hurricanes, foot-plants, wallrides. Difficult spots. Control. Speed.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha.
Gabriel: Yeah, agreed.
And the flip in flip out part, Gabriel, was more to show that you’re tech.
Gabriel: It changed when I started flipping in and out, like this isn’t fun.
But did it happen organically, or because Pekka told you to? ‘Cause then I don’t think you’re giving yourself enough cred, because it’s your skating.
Gabriel: That’s true, but I remember when everyone was at Bryggeriet, and I was in Oslo and had nobody to skate with. Then I met Pekka and those guys when they were filming for
Firetre
.
Prime hot shit.
Bjarne: That was prime time to come in.
Gabriel: And I realised this is cool. I tagged along with that and got really inspired by what they were doing. The first thing I filmed with Pekka was a bs big spin over the big bucket at Rådhuset. I never thought I could do it but Pekka was like, ‘I can see that you’ve got this.’ I ended up getting it and it opened some doors.
Did you think you were good at skating then?
Gabriel: That day I did. But I’m not gonna shit on everything I did before that, and I skated with a lot of incredible skaters before that.
Bjarne: Yeah, and it shaped you to who you are today.
What about your skating, Bjarne?
Bjarne: It changed the most during the first or second year at Bryggeriet. I realised it was sicker with flow than flipping into stuff. When watching Zero and
Baker 3
when I was young it was all stairs and rails, and that was all I skated, that’s what I liked. But at Bryggeriet people were skating bowls and with a lot of speed, and I watched In
Search Of The Miraculous
nd the lines they were doing.
This is very interesting to me.
Bjarne: Fredrik Nærland and my friends in Stavanger told me that after I came back from Malmö I had become the skater I was supposed to be.
Yeah, and it makes total sense. The way both of you are skating right now is your own skate identity.
Bjarne: But like Gabriel is saying, I’m glad I did what I did when I was a kid, practised all those tricks, you still have them in your bag. I can still do a kickflip fs 5-0 on a rail, but I never do it.
Gabriel: I’d like to see that, ha ha ha.
Claim. We’ll put it in with the wrestling and Trivial Pursuit night. Who slams the hardest?
Bjarne: That’s Gabriel!
I knew the answer to that. Deedz says that you love to slam, Gabriel.
Gabriel: I’ve gotten that one as a rumour. I think it’s because I try stuff where I’m like, fuck it I’ll see if it works, and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn’t. A lot of the time if it goes bad, I think it can probably go equally as bad if I keep trying, but it’s definitely not gonna go worse.
Bjarne, ride-on 50-50 to 50-50, Oslo. Ph. Sebastian Bjerkvik
When did you guys move to Oslo?
Gabriel: Five and half years ago.
Bjarne: 2013.
When you grow up as a skater in Norway, is it like, ‘I’m going to Oslo’?
Both: Yes.
How long have you thought that?
Bjarne: Since I was born.
Gabriel: Ha ha.
Ha ha, first word: Rådhusplassen [Oslo’s City Hall plaza].
Bjarne: It was the hub. It was where everything was going on. All the G’s were there.
Gabriel: I hung out a lot at Bernhard in Oslo and saw photos of the gold rail at Rådhuset in magazines. We mostly skated at Nesodden, but on Saturdays we’d take a full day in the city and check out spots. Rådhuset was very accessible.
Has it lived up to your expectations?
Bjarne: More than that I think.
Gabriel: Absolutely.
Bjarne: When getting to know people in other cities in Europe, I realise how nice we have it here. Pekka is always down to go film, not a lot of cities have that.
Gabriel: He gets more bummed than you if we don’t go filming.
Bjarne: I’ve never gotten a ‘no’ from Pekka when trying to go film. He loves skating.
What a nerd 😛
Bjarne: Ha ha, yeah a nerd, it’s so dope.
Gabriel: The Oslo scene in general is very good, a lot of good skaters in a relatively small place. There’s always somebody to skate with.
Bjarne: And the level is so high.
Gabriel: Yeah, a lot of skaters that people abroad probably have never heard of.
Who’s the MVP these days in Norway?
Gabriel: Deedz. I’ve never seen anyone with that kind of tunnel vision.
Bjarne: Deedz. He’s got a motivation that’s out of this world. It seems like a lot of skaters that go
pro start chilling more, he was the opposite. And then some up and comers, one kid that I’m trying to get on Antiz is Isak Oskal. He’s super sick. From Tromsø up in the north.
Gabriel: And Patrick Riberg is killing it.
Yeah, I saw the new edit from Wietse Thomas that’s coming out soon, he was killing it, all those guys were.
Bjarne: Those guys kill it.
Who’s the spot guy out of you two?
Gabriel: Bjarne is, I’m not as creative in finding weird corners you can make skateable.
Bjarne: I just walk by the same spots several times and keep thinking about what you can do there, and I write it down on my trick list.
Gabriel, gap to frontside smith grind, Oslo. Ph. Sam Ashley
Oh, you have a trick list. Gabriel?
Gabriel: I have one, but I don’t always follow through with it.
Bjarne: You gotta have one. Okay, I’m in this area, I’m feeling good, let’s go there.
Gabriel: I mostly use my map of photos, I always take photos of spots no matter how shitty they are. So when I’m in an area I can see what’s close.
You skate in the winter also. That seems fucked to me. Slamming hurts regardless, but now you’re slamming in freezing temperatures.
Bjarne: If you’re warm it’s fine. But that footage looks so much doper than anything else.
So you want snow in the shots?
Bjarne: Oh yeah, you want snow.
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Ha ha.
Bjarne: I mean, it’s something unique about where we live, there’s snow four months out of the year.
Do you wear wool underneath your pants? Long johns?
Bjarne: Oh yeah, stilongs. When I watch snowboard videos, I dream about getting a skate clip where it snows. It looks so sick.
So Gabriel. How can you be so tech and so loose at the same time?
Gabriel: Ha ha, eh. Tech and loose. It might have something to do with me trying to be so fucking tech when I was younger, but now I think it’s kinda lame and wanted to be more loose so now it’s a little
mix I guess.
Did you try to be more loose?
Gabriel: No, but be more comfortable on the board. I used to not let myself go home from the park if I hadn’t learned a new trick, and I guess that probably could make me look a little stiff.
Your loose ass trucks probably help too.
Gabriel: Yeah, Janno has told me off a few times about that. So I’ve tightened them a little. So he was right. Switch tre flips became a lot easier with a little tighter trucks. But I like cruising around. I don’t necessarily consider myself a loose skater though.
Arthur at
Free
used the word ‘wildcard’ when I talked to him about you, which I think is very fitting.
Gabriel: Yeah? I dig that.
That you don’t know what’s coming, but that it’s going to be dope. Is that just the way you ride now or do you want to land bolts?
Gabriel: Oh, I don’t give a fuck about bolts. As long as there’s no toe drag, then I’m good, ha ha.
That’s easy for you to say when you have good style, but if you’re a person with bad style and you take what you can get as long as it’s not toe drag, then you’re in trouble.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha.
I’ve coined your skating as ‘charm tech’. Hard tricks that are really cute also.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha.
Gabriel: I’ll take that. Charm tech.
I looked through your gram yesterday and I found the kickflip nollieflip line at Lakkegata, and I laughed out loud. I’d forgotten about it and it’s so dope. I’m putting the link for the video in here so
people can see it.
https://www.instagram.com/p/CTAIVu2Fogm/
How many people do you think will actually write this down?
Gabriel: If three people do it I’ll be happy.
Bjarne and Gabriel, Oslo, 2023. Ph. Sam Ashley
You went to the States last year. Where, why, how was it?
Gabriel: I went last year and the year before that. Long Beach, because of Tiago Lemos. We’ve gotten to know him and he’s got a spot there. I’d saved up money so I wanted to check it out. It was really fun the first time and I got the opportunity to do it again last year.
Did you film?
Gabriel: The first trip I filmed one trick and then got injured twice in three weeks. But it was a good trip, I got to meet a lot of people and see cool stuff. But there wasn’t a specific reason I went.
So you’d saved up money and paid for your own flight?
Gabriel: I got half the flight paid by Poetic this last time.
Poetic Collective. Please do tell.
Gabriel: Poetic is a board company from Malmö that Tom Botwid runs. He’s also the TM of Vans Scandinavia, he hooked us up with Vans after
Jadda
. And that’s when Vans Norway stopped being a thing so that was convenient.
Bjarne: And refreshing.
So then you got some support?
Gabriel: Then it was proper, got shoes and stuff. Vans Norway wasn’t really a thing, hehe. And after skating for Vans a while he asked me if I wanted to skate for Poetic. It’s been very nice; I’ve been on for two years.
As we’re rounding up, let’s talk about tricks. Bjarne. 50-50 bs 180 switch 50-50 on the up down ledge.
Bjarne: That was a major fix first. Big cracks that I filled with cement. Didn’t know what trick to do, but that trick was a dream trick. I don’t know how to do it. I actually got my nickname during that trick, which was my nickname that year: Påsan (the bag man).
Gabriel: Ha ha ha.
Bjarne: It was the first spring day in Oslo, and there were a bunch of old alcoholics sitting there, and one of them yelled at me. ‘Come on, Påsan!’. I didn’t hear it, but everybody kept yelling Påsan at me.
Gabriel. Fakie treflip over the ledge.
Gabriel: I practised it over stuff, went and did it over the ledge at the police station, which is a miniature version of the spot in Frogner Park. So we went to try it, and it didn’t take me that long actually. I cracked one board, tried it on the cracked board, landed on it and broke it, so I landed on it twice in a row. Then I had to use Vi Duc’s 8.0 board with stiff ass Venture trucks, but it kinda made it easier ‘cause it was so short and snappy. Got it a couple tries later.
Are you leading that spot?
Gabriel: If I’m the leader of that spot? That’s a cocky thing to say.
Bjarne: That’s cocky.
Hey, I’m just asking. Bjarne, is he leading? The best trick ever done over the ledge?
Bjarne: No.
Gabriel: No, I ́m not leading.
Bjarne, wallride to frontside crooked grind, Athens. Ph. Sem Rubio
Okay, so then who’s got the best trick?
Bjarne: Tiago, switch varial heel.
Gabriel: Henrik Lund, switch bs flip. O/yvind Nissen nollie back heel.
Fakie tre doe…
Bjarne: But… You’re the only one who’s skated fakie over it.
That’s what I’m saying. Regards from someone who can’t skate.
Bjarne: There’s not a lot of people that could do that.
Gabriel: Yeah right.
Hey, Tiago did switch varial heel for a reason and not fakie tre, ha ha. Just saying. We’ll leave it for the people.
Gap 50-50 kickflip. To slam. The slam is one of my favourite moments in the part.
Gabriel: I felt so dumb from that slam. That spot has always been there, (Eirik) Ballo does ollie, ollie in the dark. It’s a type of spot I like, you gotta have quick feet. It was a random crew, me, Pekka and Flo Marfaing. But it was cool, he was stoked. But all of a sudden the spot was gone, which was a shame, because I had claimed a bunch of tricks I wanted to do on it. Deedz and I went and claimed we were gonna do this and this and this.
That’s interesting. Claiming. ‘Cause in snowboarding there’s something called the boot claim. You go to a spot and claim some heavy trick. But when you come back and strap in to your board to actually hit it you’re like, ‘Oh shit’. Then people will ask ‘Was he wearing snowboard boots when he claimed it?’ ‘Oh he was wearing sneakers, all good.’ The boots make your legs so much stiffer and it’s a totally different world. Does that exist in skateboarding in some way?
Bjarne: Yeah, but we’ve got more bar claims. Tomorrow I’m gonna go and grind that rail.
Gabriel: Yeah, either the drinking claim or the hungover claim. Like that spot is no stress at all. Or what Pekka calls winter brain.
Bjarne: Yeah, that’s no joke!
Gabriel: You walk around during the winter and see a spot, and go man I’m gonna do a crazy trick on this thing in the spring, but then the pile of snow isn’t there anymore…
Bjarne: You know what the best winter claim I’ve ever heard is? It’s actually Jonatan Drab. You know the black curbs down by Vulkan? He was like damn, these curbs are so sick. Next time I rode my bike past it I was like dude, it’s all fucking gravel down there.
Ha ha ha. I’m glad I asked that. Favourite question yet.
Gabriel, 360 flip over the wall (and into the lead!) at Frognerparken, Oslo. Ph. Sebastian Bjerkvik
What’s the plan going forward?
Gabriel: I want to do fun stuff. Oslo, Copenhagen, Malmö. I’ve gone to Malmö quite a bit because of Poetic. No big plans though, but something always happens, which is why I’ve been working so much so that I can say ‘fuck it’ and go wherever.
Bjarne: I’m going to Vienna at the end of the month.
That sounded pro. A pro thing to say. I know two really cute girls in Vienna. Can I come?
Gabriel: Now I feel like I’ve gotta say something cleverer. Hmm, what’s going on these days…
So when Bjarne says he’s going to Vienna, you get self-conscious and want to change your answer? It’s not a competition.
Gabriel: Maybe I just got a personal crisis ‘cause I haven’t planned anything. And all the work stuff is just excuses.
You don’t need excuses, you do kickflip, nollieflip lines on the bumps, which is the loosest shit ever done on
a skateboard.
Gabriel: I didn’t work back then.
Bjarne: Ha ha ha.
Gabriel: I’m not gonna work so much after the summer.
I’ll be pissed if you do. Is there going to be a Gabriel and Bjarne 2?
Gabriel: Yes.
It’s happening?
Bjarne: Yeah, it’s almost done.
So why didn’t you say that when I asked what’s happening going forward?
Bjarne: It’s gonna drop, but don’t know when.
Gabriel: I need some more time, Bjarne is done. I don’t have an ender.
You probably have five enders. I have a title suggestion: Bjarne and Gabriel.
Bjarne: That’s what it’s called.
Ha ha, genius. Last question. What’s the best lesson you’ve learned from your fathers?
Bjarne: Handywork. And to chill. He’s the chillest person. I love my dad. But I can’t chill. Totally opposite of me. I think about it when I work. He’s also a perfectionist, he’s been a furniture carpenter for 20 years and never had a single return.
Gabriel: Hard question. I have an amazing relationship with my dad. He’s a very happy go lucky guy that does a lot of stuff, a little too much at times. It’s a little cliché to say that it either works out or it will pass, but he’s taught me to take things with a pinch of salt. I quit my Masters, and he says that was probably smart, that I listened to myself. If I tell him I don’t know what to do with my life, he says that he’s never known himself. And he’s
doing good.
Thanks for the chat boys. I love you guys and now I’ve gotten to know you even better.
Gabriel: Love you, Perry. And Bjarne, I guess.
Bjarne: Ha ha, wow.

================================================================================

BY Sam Ashley  •  October 24, 2017
Isle x SkatePal: Pieces Of Palestine
Video by Jacob Harris, words/interview by Chris Jones and photography by Sam Ashley (don’t miss the extended gallery at the bottom of the post!).
For those who are not already aware,
SkatePal
is a charity that aims to spread the love of skateboarding in Palestine. Since 2013 they have been building skateparks and providing skateboarding lessons to young people across the West Bank. The charity works with local communities to help provide access to new equipment and tools, as local skateboarders currently rely on donations from outside the country. Earlier this year, Isle Skateboards teamed up with SkatePal and arranged one of the first ever skate trips to Palestine. The plan was to run a skate workshop and perform a demo for the kids at SkatePal’s park in Asira Al-Shamaliya. Alongside this, we aimed to skate around various cities and towns in the West Bank with some of the local skaters. To help provide a comprehensive insight to the trip, I interviewed the Isle team, cinematographer Jacob Harris, Charlie Davis and Theo Krish from SkatePal and some of the local Palestinian skaters that joined us during our time there. I will let their answers tell the story of our visit to the West Bank…
Chris Jones, nosegrind, Ramallah.
What were your preconceptions of Palestine beforehand and did your ideas change during the course of the trip?
Nick Jensen: To be honest, I didn’t know that much other than the scary stories I had seen in the media. So it was a bit nerve wracking at first as I didn’t know the place we were going to be in Palestine was not Gaza, it was the West Bank, which is safe. That reassured my girlfriend and me so I went there and it was completely different to how I imagined. I didn’t know that Palestinians were as oppressed as they are and I didn’t really know how the oppression worked before I witnessed it and heard the locals’ stories. So rather than having it given to you by the media, when you actually meet people and hear about what they’ve had to go through it makes you really understand how tough it is. I also found out how lovely and friendly everyone there is and how they’ve got a really positive attitude towards doing things and keep going forward to do it – that just shines through so much.
Where did you visit in the West Bank and what were the differences in the places you visited?
Nick: We went to Ramallah, Bethlehem, Nablus and Asira Al-Shamaliya. Nablus and Ramallah were quite similar, they were both really busy market kind of cities, so there was a lot of stuff going on. It all seemed kind of market-led so it felt like I was in a giant Portobello Market with lots of different things going on… They were really vibrant. Bethlehem seemed to have some sort of magical power to it because it has so much history… Some of the architecture is breathtaking. Asira is a really remote mountainous place with people riding donkeys; it’s more rural and suburban.
Tom Knox: Although Nablus and Ramallah were both very busy, the attitude towards us from the locals seemed different. In Nablus they didn’t seem used to seeing skaters I guess… They might not see as many foreigners travelling there too much. In Bethlehem there seemed to be so many more tourists and Christians travelling there on their pilgrimage to the church. Asira was more in the countryside so it was a lot quieter.
Casper Brooker, 50-50 ollie over, Bethlehem.
What were the spots like?
Tom: The spots were amazing. When I was going there I thought there wouldn’t be that much and we would just try and skate whatever we could, but it turned out that the spots were better than some other skate trips I’ve been on. I’m sure if we would have stayed there for longer we would’ve found more stuff to skate. Especially in Ramallah, there seemed to be loads of spots there.
What memories stand out from the trip?
Nick: When we were in that bar in Bethlehem we were with a Palestinian guy called Ala and he was telling us so many fascinating stories about things you take for granted… Like the fact you can’t use PayPal to pay for things out there. It was interesting to learn that if you wanted to get a skateboard in Palestine you would have to either know a contact in Jerusalem or go through to Jordan to get it. Just these little everyday things we have access to and take for granted that they don’t… Instead they have to come up with inventive ways to get stuff. Like when they built the wall people built tunnels under it… Like families were divided literally… Like one person’s house was on one side and the other person’s on the other. So just learning all about that stuff, which you wouldn’t necessary learn in some news resources, that was very interesting. Also, another memory, which was amazing, was Sylvain hippie jumping a donkey.
Tom Knox Heelflip, Ramallah.
What is your favourite clip from the trip?
Jacob Harris: Probably one of my favourite clips is some footage of Sylvain skating a flat bar at the park in Asira. He was just messing around going really slowly doing 50-50 variations but I really like it because Asira felt like a bit of a focal point for the trip; we were going there to see what SkatePal had been up to. It felt really warm and nice and it was a really fun place to be. We were around all the kids who were really excited by skateboarding and that clip sort of embodies how we spent our time in that place. It was kind of billed as a demo but it was just a bunch of us skating this park on top of a hill with the kids where you can see for miles around. The park is still quite a special thing in this small village where obviously quite a few things have changed since the skatepark has been built there. This is perhaps seen in the fact that girls are able to come up and skate with the boys and in social terms for that village it has changed things in quite a nice way.
Could you say a little about the film formats you used for the trip and what your reasons were for using these?
Jacob: I used a VX1000 because that’s my favourite way to capture skateboarding. I also used 16mm on a Bolex and sound recordings on a Zoom because I think that it’s a really nice way to try and convey an atmosphere from a place… 16mm just captures things in its own significant way that, if not delivers you exactly to the place, then it certainly captures an atmosphere. The places we visited would be a mixture of either really busy and hectic or slow and quiet. Always there would be so much to look at and sounds dominated the cities: the call to prayer, car horns, ‘what’s your name?’ and ‘welcome welcome’. My approach is to try to give a sort of experience that claims less to be reality but hopefully transmits something authentic through the mishmash of things you end up recording. I conducted a few interviews but I don’t really like to make things didactic in that way, so will probably let things flow out through a couple of phrases.
Sylvain Tognelli, backside noseblunt, Bethlehem.
This was the first time a skate company has done a trip to the West Bank, what kind of reception did the Isle team get?
Sylvain Tognelli: Something that I really enjoyed was that sometimes when you visit some countries people can be like ‘the pro skaters are in town’, which leads to the kids just sitting down and watching you… But I feel like the whole time we were there the skaters just wanted to skate with us and also show us how they skate. I hate the idea of having a unilateral relation with the skaters… Like for us just to come and show them things… I prefer the idea of giving as much as you take. People were happy to see us, have a good time skating, to show us their country and ask us questions about our countries. We were all on the same level so it wasn’t that we are the pro skaters in town kind of feeling.
What do you think about the work of SkatePal and its impact for the people in the West Bank?
Tom: The work they’re doing is amazing… The skatepark they built is really great and skateboarding is just a good activity for kids… It seemed like all the kids were enjoying it. They have lessons going on all the time there, which is good and they have free boards for kids to use if they don’t have one and if they want to buy them they are trying to have cheap set-ups to sell. It just seems like a really good thing to be doing and they are not trying to push it on anyone, they’re not trying to say ‘this is our culture you should accept it’, they just have a skatepark and if the kids want to come and do that activity they can… Just like playing football or whatever. It was really nice the way they are doing it.
Casper Brooker, kickflip, Ramallah.
Why do you think it’s useful for skate teams to visit Palestine?
SkatePal: There’s several reasons why it’s great for teams to visit Palestine: the main thing is that it helps the local skaters feel connected to the wider skate community. The skate scene in Palestine is quite isolated from the rest of the world; there aren’t any skate shops, it’s difficult to import equipment, there aren’t any demos from visiting pro skaters and it’s quite hard for people to travel. So the scene is confined to a few skateparks, which are great, but you need other things to help keep a scene alive. It’s great to give local skaters the chance to watch and skate with professionals… We want to give them that same buzz that other kids around the world get when they see their favourite skater in real life.
If you live in London for instance, you have this option all the time, just pop down to Southbank on a Saturday or go to a demo at your local park. Palestinian skaters only get to experience pro teams through YouTube. It also helps to show the international (skate) community that it’s a fun and safe place to visit. Lots of big skate teams visit Israel, but hardly any come to the West Bank. We want people to know that the option is there, it’s just a bus ride away, there are loads of spots that look really sick in photos, and most of them have never been skated before! Outside of skateboarding, trips like this boost tourism in the West Bank and help to raise awareness of Palestine and the situation around the world. Through these trips we can help people understand what life is like on the other side of the wall.
Majd Ramadan (18 year old skater from Ramallah): I think that skateboarding is a positive tool for kids in Palestine.
Abdullah Milhem (17 year old skater from Qalqilya): For the skate scene it makes people more interested in skateboarding after seeing the bangers you guys were doing; it proves that skating is not just a game but rather a life style.
What were people’s reactions to the Isle team visiting?
SkatePal: Everyone was stoked for sure! It was obviously a bigger deal for the slightly older skaters like Abdullah Milhem and Majd Ramadan, as they were able to travel with us to different towns and see the guys shred. The older guys follow the international skate scene a bit closer than the kids who are just starting out, so for them it was a bigger deal to have pro skaters visiting. Majd said that skating with the Isle guys at the plaza (in Ramallah) was one of the best sessions of his life in an Instagram post! I think once the video drops, the skaters that didn’t manage to see you guys skate in person are going to be amazed!
Nick Jensen, backside nosegrind revert, Nablus.
How was it having the Isle team visit the West Bank?
Majd: I was so happy to have a team like the Isle crew here, it was amazing. Also, I have never seen anyone skating like them… I mean I’m always watching videos online but it’s so different seeing someone skating in front of you.
Abdullah: Having you guys was amazing and inspiring for skaters in Palestine. You guys inspired us to keep skating in order to be like you guys one day. We had a really fun session; I saw a lot of things that blew my mind and it was really fun to hang out with them. Coming here gives us power and motivation… It proves that we are not alone and it shows the world how skating is important to Palestinians because we are denied so many rights. It gives us a feeling of freedom and when you guys come here people start to understand that.
Fahmi Sawalma (14 year old skater from Asira): It was very exciting to see a professional team in our village. I asked them to teach me something. I was very happy!
Would you like to see more teams visit in the future?
Majd: It would be amazing for us Palestinians to have more teams visit here in Palestine.
Do you have any plans on going back?
Tom: I would love to go back… I would really enjoy going out there for a build at some point if the opportunity came up. I was also a bit hurt so I didn’t get to skate all of the spots and there were so many more spots to go to. I felt near the end of the week I was really starting to understand and learn a lot more so I’d like to go back and see how it has developed since. Sylvain: No plans at the moment, but it would be really cool to go back in a few years and do the same thing again, meeting the same people and seeing how everything went… To go back there and see how the kids have developed and how skateboarding has developed.
I think it would put things in perspective a bit more. Jacob: If the opportunity came up, I would definitely like to go back.
Nick: Yeah I do definitely. Going through customs on the way back they personally try and make you feel kind of guilty for going there and this has inspired me to want to go back even more. The lack of open mindedness makes me think ‘fuck man you need to go there and hang out with people and have fun’.
Sylvain, 50-50, Ramallah.
What recommendations/advice do you have for any skate teams that plan on visiting?
Sylvain: I don’t know if it’s possible, but my recommendation would be to forget any preconceptions before going there. Just try to meet people and see them as human beings rather than Palestinian or Israeli and just enjoy it, going as you would go anywhere.
SkatePal: Do it! It’s a fun place: friendly people, good spots, interesting history and great food! Plus it’s really cheap.
What are SkatePal’s future plans?
SkatePal: In 2017 we’ll have more volunteers teaching from March to October. We’re trying to get more female skaters involved – we’d love to reach a stage where we have an even split between male and female volunteers. We are currently planning our next skatepark project and hope to start it next September. We’re trying to promote Palestine as a skate destination to more teams and we’d like to have the first female skate team to visit the country. The general long-term goals are to find a way to get skate equipment into the country – so that the scene can become self-sustainable and eventually won’t need the input of a foreign charity like us. We also want to try and find a way to pay ourselves, haha!
If you’d like to volunteer, make a donation or are interested in doing a trip, head to:
www.skatepal.co.uk
or contact
info@skatepal.co.uk
. Also keep an eye out for the new
Isle x SkatePal Curiosities decks
. 100% of the profits go to SkatePal!
If you’re interested in learning more about the skate scene check out the short documentary:
Epicly Palestine’d
.
View Gallery | 36 images

================================================================================

BY admin  •  December 29, 2022
🔴 Top Ten Of 2022
Here we are
again
casting a somewhat sagacious eye over Free Skate Mag’s 2022 YouTube output. With only ten to pick from a potential eighty-six uploads, inevitably plenty of amazing videos are missing from this list.
There’s no judgment intended there, everyone making skate videos in whatever capacity is a hero/heroine in my eyes and part of the lifeblood that stops skateboarding turning into the boring, pedestrian, self-parody which is always just around the corner. Spot hunters, fish eye wranglers, keyboard pounders – you are all rulers.
With that caveat out of the way: here are my personal favourite ten videos of 2022 that come with a little red ball at the start; rather than a demonic goat head-butting its way through the title card. There’s no particular rhyme or reason as to the logic behind their selection beyond the fact that I’ve watched each of these clips more than the other ones. To me, that is good enough.
Masks off, heads down, record buttons depressed: I can’t wait for 2023’s crop.
– Ben Powell
Jura – The Alibi
Any video part coming out in 2022 that starts with an out of focus fish-eye shot of somebody switch crooking over a shit version of the Flushing ledge/grate obstacle in a puffa jacket is going to be dope. And when I say ‘dope’ I mean actually effortlessly cool and gangster like XXXL sweatpants John Igei at Pier 7 or Stevie at peak Love. Lot of people trying to front like they can run video parts almost completely composed of ledge tricks without appearing to understand the responsibility that decision brings. Luckily for him (and us) Juan comes from regal stock and carries the weight of his classically trained Madrid forebears with him throughout.
If you’re clueless about skate culture then you probably won’t understand that the final trick in this part is a direct reference to the vintage output of fellow Madrid ledge executioner Jesus Fernandez. Juan is a disciple however, so when he fakie hardflips into fakie crooks – just know that he’s doffing his cap to Jesus doing that same move on the Colon plaza bench in a random Mosaic bearings montage from about twenty years ago.
Do you need more reasons why this is one of my top ten picks from Free’s output this year? Okay – here you go. Juan’s nickname ‘Jura’ was given to him by some deep Madrid graff head back when he was a prepubescent bombing trains. And we’re not talking about a 14-year-old drawing cocks on his schoolbooks here either: if you’re out painting trains at that age then you’ve got the switch crook single trick pass forever.
Next up, essential to any ledgetarian worth their weight in Pupeki’s is having the right outfit. Ever since Kareem Campbell did that line in Twenty Shot in the black
Guess denim
with the knee high nollie flip on flat followed by the magic 5.0 that pops out mid ledge, the rules have been clear. If you’re filming a ledge-based section, with hip hop accompaniment, and you want it to be tasteful, then you need to post several fits: all of which need to complement what you’re doing.
Jura glides effortlessly from SF Rob Welsh/Puzzle-era Tony Brossard sweat suits to hi-vis orange Palace combats/Paramedic uniforms. Shit, he even throws in a Blokes-approved denim and tight polo shirt number for a quick switch heel. Basically he’s as equally at home on the terraces necking pints as he is leaning on a Jeep in North Philly. Exquisite Y Control.
Finally, for those still unconvinced of this VX masterpiece’s righteous place on this (albeit completely subjective) top ten list, surely the fact that the dopest skate filmer in the world (don’t argue) Brian Panebianco co-signed this with his backache is the final nail in the coffin? Well that, and the fact that Jura casually chucks in a backside flip down a fuck off set of stairs right after lighting the fuse on two almighty sticks of ledge dynamite set to House music.
The dude fucking kills it. Stop crying.
AMELIEN
Let’s get this out of the way first so I can feel free to chat more shit. This guy has got a dome and a half. He’s a good-looking man 100% but fuck me, that’s hella skull. Quite possibly his cranial capacity is the reason why he’s so incredibly good at skateboarding, n’est-ce pas?Anyway…
How the hell is anyone filming a trick at Trocadero without getting arrested, mugged or dragged into shooting a wedding photo for a random family of Germans? I’ve walked through there at 5am, at 2pm and at 11pm and it is ALWAYS teeming with bellends wanting to shoot their ‘unique’ insta photo and/or guys trying to sell you Chinese plastic shite representing the thing you can see right in front of you. The opening fakie flip in this section is good enough on its own, but knowing how insanely hectic and well-guarded that set of stairs is, just makes it even more incredible. Good as fuck.
Moving on, this is a handsome French man blasting through the streets. Don’t let that comfy Womack and Womack track kid you – he’s tanking it. I have to respect anyone straight nollieing over hunks of concrete too – that’s as rare as it is because it’s basically impossible to nose ollie anything higher than a little traffic cone unless you’ve been smoking PCP.
I loved the backside nosebluntslide on the kerb too – it’s weird how it’s cooler to do it on an obstacle like that now, isn’t it? I mean Matt Hensley invented the trick on kerbs so it makes sense as both cultural allusion and an of-the-moment manouvre. Either way, I’d rather see one on a kerb than on a 98-stair handrail but that’s probably because I’m a jaded, fat, old prick.
I’m not sure about the shots of Amelien in bed peppered throughout this. Is it suggesting that he’s being haunted by skateboarding in his sleep in a general sense? Or just by this section? Is it really his bed or is it a stunt bed?
Have the diazepam I’m taking for plantar fasciitis kicked in? Who knows…
Moving on, like a weary pensioner trudging through glue, and we arrive at the strangely paced slam section midway through this brilliant video. There are loads of falls in it where random infants would start crying in the background because they don’t understand why the skateboard man is sliding through pigeon shit on their neck. “Is he dead mummy?”
Happily, Amelien survives this collection of nasty, angular misfortunes and powers through with, what I guess is the second song of this short but ballistic part.
There are a bunch of really, really heavy tricks in this final bit, not least the 5050 on the hubba with the massive ‘you will literally die’ drop on the side which is giving me anxiety to watch even now. The noise of the grind makes it even worse too – sounds like it’s been waxed up with spit or something. Terrifying.
Is Amelien the first person to get a trick on the Flushing ledge on steroids that’s become a hot spot too? You know the massive chunky ledge over what looks like a mini football field’s worth of grass that he nollie crooks in this? It might’ve been in one of those Euro Vans edits previously but I feel like Amelien got in first.
It must feel amazing to lock in like that and watch the grass beneath you though. Proper buzzing. I dig this dude a lot. If I was attempting to sum him up in a lazier but more succinct way, I might say that he reminds me of a mixture of Mark Frolich and Rowan Zorilla, only French and on Rave Skateboards.
Big knucks all round lads.
Gabriel og Bjarne
This is one of those videos where you’re already certain it’s going to be brilliant just off the thumbnail. Look at the spot. Look at the form of the backtail. Look how Norwegian it is. Look who filmed it: basically, this is in any thinking European’s top shelf immediately. Has Pekka ever made a video that isn’t sick? His name is as much a guarantee of enjoyment as Ty Evan’s name is a guarantee of superfluous chest angles and Savile-copters.
In many ways Norwegian skaters have it pretty hard – it’s freezing a lot of the time, there’s only one city (Oslo) with more than a million inhabitants, which necessarily limits urban architecture to a degree and, perhaps most pertinent to skateboarding come-ups, there’s literally no point trying to get known by skating handrails because Kevin Baekkel has already 5050’d them all.
As a result, the likes of Gabriel Bjørsvik and Bjarne Tjøtta have had to fall back on simply being absolutely fucking amazing at skating everything.
Having laid out some of the hardships facing the Norwegian skateboard scene, it’s also worth pointing out the positives too. As a country with heavy snowfall for at least 4 months of the year, Norwegian skate videos tend to have lots of footage with heaps of slowly melting ice piled up in the background.
This is massively the case here and made me chuckle thinking of the kind of shit people in the UK and the East Coast of the US like to trot out on the regs. “Oh it’s so hard to skate here, it’s so cold, etc, etc”
Cut to these two blasting lines with nothing more than a pair of Big Boys and a beanie to protect them from the clearly sub-zero temperatures.
Equally, Norway does have a dearth of massive city space like London or New York but it’s also a hugely wealthy country so, going on Pekka’s videos at least, there seems to be constant construction happening, resulting in mad amounts of new weird spots. The flipside is that whilst Oslo, (similar to Lisbon minus the sub-zero temperatures) seems to have a ton of amazing new spots, they almost always get built on the crustiest fucking surfaces ever. There are so many tricks in this where the run-out intervenes and pitches both of them to the floor. Not that either skater seems to care in their perma-smiling, uber-healthy personal universes though.
Plenty of standouts trick-wise: I loved the bluntside to fakie 50-50 on the kerb, the backtail on the literal mountain of gravel with a run out directly into a plate glass window and the kickflip manny down a 5000-year-old slab of stone directly into an ice field. Californians must watch these Free videos sometimes in a state of total stupefied bewilderment. “Dude, what is this guy doing? Why is he riding out across a frozen lake? Is this lit? I’m confused…”
Another great feature of all Norwegian videos, going back decades to the 1990s output of Jørgen Johannessen, is the omnipresence of Rådhuset, or ‘Oslo Town Hall’ to the less tall, Nordic and handsome amongst us.
This spot is Oslo’s version of Southbank or MACBA I suppose and has been a proving ground for a very specific type of hyper-pop-off-marble tech skating for a long, long, time. Spot continuity like that is always hugely culturally important so I was stoked to see both of these dudes add their notches to this hallowed ground. Backside 360 ollieing over that huge block of concrete like he does is nuts.
Aside from everything I’ve already said, here are three more reasons why I’ve picked this one: the filming, editing and music selection is, as always with Pekka, absolutely cock-on. Secondly, everyone looks mad healthy and happy, which has infused me with hope after two months of freezing my bollocks off in the UK and thirdly, as this is a Vans supported duo, you get the pleasure of watching people rip without constantly feeling compelled to check the resell value of their shoes on Stock X. Flott arbeid mine herrer!
Much Quiet
Vans have been busy this year; on Free’s YouTube alone there have been three team video releases, so it was difficult to select the one to include here.
I almost went for the
Full Circle
clip that dropped to accompany the Vans x Free Half Cab but I figured that might look a bit suspect (despite that clip being banging too). Instead I’ve picked the longer and most varied of the three because there’s plenty to say and, rather than being a documentation of a shoe-holiday, ‘Much Quiet’ functions as a cohesive team video in the more traditional sense. As such, this commentary is more of a blow-by-blow account as it happens on screen, rather than a considered, economic morsel of wit (lol) like with the shorter clips featured.
The editor and main filmer Sirus is well known for his sterling fish-eye work, which is evident throughout this. There were numerous times during repeat watches of
Much Quiet
where I found myself muttering, ‘Is this referencing
Speed Freaks
?’ This query was given more weight when Quentin Boillon decided to half kickflip down the Dome double-set mid-way through, a trick first documented in Jim Thiebaud’s
Speed Freaks
section. But I digress…
Clocking in at 27 minutes, this is a piece of work and there are tons of skaters of most (street-oriented) varieties contained therein. Things kick off with London’s Helena Long whose unique approach to technical street skating sets a cheery tone for all that follows. Her section did leave me wondering whether we still call the trick a ‘willy grind’ if the trick’s being performed by a woman though.
Is that dangerous territory? Very probably…
The juxtaposition between Helena and the second skater Val Bauer, who legitimately looks like a murderer in a good way, (can you look like a murderer in a good way?) is particularly stark. The Paris section with Val, Will Moneris and Oscar Candon, (who must thank his lucky stars daily that he’s no longer obliged to skate in Supra moon boots) is fast paced with lots of pole jams, wallies and strange bank spots. Great stuff.
Rory Milanes and Danny Brady are next and definitely introduce a subtle but discernible Palace vibe to the editing and music accompaniment. Vans must be stoked to have these two on – I mean Palace are so deep these days that they can literally put cartoon ducks all over the least practical (but most iconic) Vans skate shoe ever and Hypebeasts the world over will wank themselves into a frenzy trying to buy them all in 15 seconds. No diggety though – Palace have earned every ounce of that obsequious dick riding from the fuccbois.
Skate-wise – Rory comes through with tricks you never knew he had on lock, and Brady does absolutely no switch tricks at all but a brace of very, very heavy Pupecki variations. I truly hope it was Rory’s stunt anus that he punctured on that handrail though.
‘Nico Gisonno switch frontside flips on a fishtail whilst bridesmaids whoop in BGP’ sounds like the title of a Marcel Duchamp painting but it is in fact the introduction to the next noteworthy part of
Much Quiet
. Seconds later, Dustin Dollin goes down like an elderly woman shot in the forehead. I love Dollin as much as the next person but I’m beginning to wonder if our collective expectations are enabling him here? As that thought bubble bursts, he’s back, riding away from a couple of trademark drop based tricks, so maybe Dustin’s not quite ready for Dignitas flow just yet. Joking. Long live Spider Grandma!
London Bagladies Daryl Dominguez and Tom Delion lead the charge of a montage also featuring UK skate royalty Chris Oliver, (who still kills it despite having knee cartilage the same consistency as a discarded calamari ring) and the man who seems to be constantly filming video clips for every mag in Europe, Conor Charleson, who does his thing by riding up, down and into a selection of horrendous ‘banks’. Fellow Brits Jake Church and Curtis Pearl introduce some experimental trousers, high-speed lines and footage of the death-defying drop-in that made the cover of Free and the thumbnail of this very video. I have to say though, the footage didn’t really live up to the photo to be honest, but respect to Dogtanian for risking his life anyway.
Sam Sitayeb is sick. He goes really fast, does loads of very hard tricks in lines and generally makes black Vans slip-ons look wearable. In short, he’s a very elegant man running trouser widths completely at odds with mainstream keg thinking. Might this be the first all balaclava part outside of those
BA:KU
guys too?
Joseph Biais’s appearance as the curtains to the show adds many things to the mix. Mostly though it explains the severe drought of Polar Big Boys in this video since he’s involved in team and marketing goings on for Carharrt. My man knows how to flex pants control. Tops off switch hurricanes is it? Yes my G.
Ending the video with Prefab Sprout’s
When Love Breaks Down
is inspired too, as a lot of the music earlier on tends towards an edgy Anne Clark inspired Dark Wave kind of vibe. To see a tall ginger guy radically fucking shit up accompanied by upbeat 80s pop is a welcome relief. This is a well-deserved ender from a very good skateboarder.
I feel as though I’ve already written far too much about this but 27 minutes of skate footage in 2022 is like 3-months worth in 2002. The
Speed Freaks
comparison I made earlier was absolutely meant as a compliment too – this is as varied as you’re going to get (unless you want to see transition skating) and is more than worth a watch, (Quentin’s Dennis the Menace x Pussy Riot costume is worth the screen time alone) if you haven’t already seen it.
Let’s end on this statement of fact: Half Cabs are the best skate shoe of all time. Please make sure they are always in stock, especially in white, in every skate shop in the world. Oh yeah, and keep on funding shit like this – Vans rules!
Felipe Bartolome – Perro Sismico
And now for something completely different…
If the Vans
Much Quiet
video reminded me of the classic VHS
Speed Freaks
, then this Felipe vehicle felt more akin to a mixture between Gullwing’s
Full Power Trip
and a
Faces of Death
compilation.
Leaning more on the figurative approach to representing high level skateboarding, the whole vibe of this one is unique. From Felipe’s two-tone hairstyle through to his choice of ‘spots’ (and I use that term extremely loosely), there is absolutely nothing conventional about this fantastic little video.
Part travelogue, part documentation of Felipe’s personal journey through injury and Covid and part compilation of spots so rugged that it looks as though you’d end up with Rabies from just standing next to them – this is the closest thing to an objet d’art on my list.
Lo-fi filming is such a meme these days but Felix Bollain wields the hi-8 with aplomb and adds to the atmosphere rather than just doing it for zeitgeist clout. The date on the opening section states ‘Mexico March 2019’ so presumably they must’ve arrived right as Covid began to spread its talons across the globe. Downer. Equally downer is the fact that only a minute into the clip, (and after Felipe’s already filmed a line on one of the most insane looking spots ever documented), wobbly scan photos inform us that he’s knackered his knee after a week.
Back to Spain goes Felipe to sit out a year of knee rehab and global pandemic smoking tabs, making clothes, being artistic and (one assumes) scouring Google Earth for yet more ‘spots’ that come with a Tetanus jab requirement.
2021 kicks in and Felipe’s back – his knee’s working again and before you can say ‘watch out for that 5 meter drop into those used hypodermics!’ he’s tackling some of the most epically crusty spots ever filmed. To be honest, I think if Felix had filmed this in HD it would’ve been too scary to watch – it’s terrifying enough in lo-res. Referring back to a comment I made in an earlier review, this clip really blows apart the conceit at the heart of all this whining about ‘how hard it is to skate in London/New York/insert huge metropolis’. Felipe and crew are literally wallriding on crumbling sandblasted barrio walls, leaping off decrepit 20 foot high bullrings into mud and linking switch lines together through
City of God
style favellas where the last trick is to hopefully not get mown down by a car. Gallantry doesn’t even come close to how exciting this is to watch.
Given how much time Felipe and co spend sliding across shattered concrete in the pursuit of filming on the most heinous spots on the planet, Carhartt, who sponsored this one, must be very happy to see their trousers road-tested in the most extreme conditions yet. Wear workwear to work? Are you mad? Get those carpenters pants on and slide 200 feet on your arse through a Mexican ghetto more like. That’s the real test of quality and endurance.
I’ve waffled on enough about this now. It’s outstanding in every respect and if you didn’t already rate Felipe and his array of absurd haircuts, you will after watching him deal with some truly unskateable terrain like he’s blasting around Southbank. Seismic dogs indeed.
Lucien Genand – Boardslide hood
I’m confused about this title – is it as in ‘doing a boardslide whilst wearing a hood’? Or doing a boardslide ‘in the hood’? Or is it, using the boardslide as a hood to hide from other tricks and/or from the intrinsic futility of life? Typically French eh? I’m having an existential crisis and I haven’t even started watching yet.
I’ve picked this one for the Top Ten because, to me at least, Lucien’s section represents something very healthy and exciting about the direction that modern street skating seems to heading in. Long gone are the days of every young talent flocking to the same spot to try and add a degree of difference to a previously executed trick. Today’s mission appears to be focused instead on searching out and conquering new obstacles that earlier generations would’ve deemed unskateable or unworthy of their time because you wouldn’t be able to do a trick technically worthwhile enough there. This is where wallies, early grabs and ride on variations come into their own I suppose, in so far as they unlock bits of street furniture that can’t be accessed in a conventional manner.
Aside from those musings, Lucien also reps that now omnipresent look that crosses the ‘urban burglar’ with the ‘fashion waif’. Like he’d break into your house and steal your car but also colour-code your eveningwear for you before leaving. Often this look utilizes black wheels and those trousers with patches on that people who dig modern hardcore seem to favour. It’s a strong aesthetic, possibly popularized by K Rod and Ben Kadow, and combines the ennui and disdain of an aesthete with the desire to slam your ribs into gas meters of a mentally disturbed human.
Is the tree boardslide a Rick Howard reference or is it just chucked in there randomly following a banging manny because like, ‘if a tree falls in the forest and no French dude boardslides it, did it even happen?’
The edit with the break in the first track after Lucien eats shit trying the boardslide to upwards boardslide is ace. The vocals and guitars rise with the danger levels of the shit he’s skating and if you’ve got a soul, you’re hooked.
I’m not trying to front like this is the best video part ever, or that Lucien is likely to create a paradigm shift in our culture – more so that he’s just genuinely inventive and a joy to watch. Anyone else spot the blipvert in this too at 2:25?
It cuts for a single frame to CCTV camera footage of the inside of a café. Is this a mistake? Does it have some sinister significance? Answers on a black beanie please.
My absolute favourite trick in this represents what I like best both about this skater/section and also about this Japanese/Parisian inspired style of skating that pares everything back to its absolute minimum and allows speed and momentum to take the place of overly-aware foot shuffling. When he crack nollies over that dirt gap to 5050 on the step, it’s a pinnacle example of this simplistic but progressive approach. Bravo mec.
Now that I’ve re-watched this a bunch of times, I’ve realised that there are a lot of boardslide variations in it – maybe that explains the mysterious title?
Either way – this kid rips even though he looks like he weighs about 30 kg wet through. It’s ‘on trend’ sure but the ideas and thinking are there too.
Keep exploring Slender Man.
Emerica – Showtime
This one’s in for a variety of reasons – some of which are terribly Brit-centric but hey, fuck you – I’ll be dead years before most of you lot reading this are, (all 20 of you most likely) so indulge the old man, please.
It’s undeniable that Emerica have one of the most distinctive and recognisable video aesthetics of all of skateboarding’s footwear companies. Riders and editors may come and go but you will always know an Emerica video within the first minute of watching. Can the same be said of other more all-pervasive footwear imprints? I think not.
Aside from it being entirely filmed in the UK (England to be exact), which appeals to my parochial British mind, the main reason I selected this one is because it represents a level of brand awareness absent from the contemporary output of most of the larger skate-affiliated shoe companies. There’s a clue in the video’s title – ‘Showtime’ – thus named presumably because it documents a demo tour where hugely well known pro skaters turn up at regular skateparks and skate with, and for, the people who actually pay retail for the products said pros are employed to endorse.
That seems like a pretty simple idea to grasp, but since Instagram and the universality of people spending most of their waking hours transfixed by their handheld twit machines, nearly all of skateboarding’s shoe brands appear to have forgotten about demos. I don’t level that accusation at every brand of course and you shouldn’t need a LinkedIn page full of self-aggrandizing lies to be able to work out which ones I’m talking about.
If it’s a choice between using your marketing budget to hire out a jazzy hotel to give people who’ve not paid retail for a pair of skate shoes in 20 years an opportunity to sniff twat powder and pat each other on the back OR filling up a van with children’s heroes and heading to whatever random skatepark to drop actual lived experiences for your paying customers: which one do you think is more likely to a) result in sales and b) result in righteous stoke?
Am I an old bastard defending tradition like King Cnut screaming at the impending surf? Very likely. Am I still correct about demo’s being hugely significant in skate culture? Yes, I am.
Nobody is going to listen to me though, I’m fully aware of that, and the decisions made over Zoom that demo tours are ‘just not financially viable in 2022’ or that ‘demos are a waste of time’ or even that, ‘nobody wants to watch skatepark footage’ will no doubt continue to be made.
Here’s something though – I attended one of these Emerica demos, organized in tandem with a very active local skater-owned-shop and it was fucking rammed with people. Skaters of all ages, genders and flavours flocked to Leeds’ Hyde Park skatepark to see Leo Romero crook up across and down the hubba they skate every day of the week. It’s easy to forget how life-changing witnessing things like your drunk mate paying Spanky a tenner for doing a backtail shove-it can be.
(That actually happened by the way and as much as Spanky tried to resist this alcohol-sodden act of generosity, said stumbling mong wouldn’t have it.
“I watched you on
This is Skateboarding
and it made me land on my bollocks on handrails numerous times Spanky lad, I owe you this”).
Old man ranting at a cloud aside, you all know what I mean here, right?
Something went wrong around the mid 00s and most of the skate industry forgot what it’s like to be a wide-eyed kid. ‘But we just dropped a banging Insta clip’ is no substitute for hyping up 12-year-olds. Fix up knobheads.
With that out of the way,
Showtime
also got selected because it’s got some ridiculously good skating on it. Watching Leo Romero absolutely annihilate rails when he clearly doesn’t need to just rings with the joy of loving skateboarding. The fact that he spoke about how he believes that demo’s are a responsibility just makes it even better. If you want kids to spend their money, then give them a reason beyond staring into their phones. It’s not that difficult.
Sermon over. If you haven’t already watched this – go do so now.
Considering all the confirmation bias from inside the industry about how nobody wants to watch ‘demo footage’, it might come as a surprise to certain elements to see that this piece garnered 107k views on YouTube (second only to the Last Resort AB’s video). Basically, just get in the van, innit?
Last Resort AB – Alv’s Angels
It seems pertinent to hop onto the Pontus train right now and extol the virtues of this next skater-owned release which holds the accolade of being the most watched of this top ten with 123k views at time of writing.
When it works out, clearly there’s no business like shoe business and, for those whose footwear endeavours are successful, solid gold toilets and backyard mega ramps await. Sadly though, for every DC or Lakai shaped success, there are multiple Kastel and Nadia shaped disasters, proving that footwear is dangerous water to wade into for those lacking either the fortitude or the guile to swim amongst the sharks. Happily, Pontus Alv possesses both of these attributes in spades and has proven repeatedly that his large-footed Midas touch is unparalleled in both its Hokus and its Pokus.
It is extremely fucking ballsy to start an independent shoe brand in the current skateboard landscape but Pontus is doing it and from what I can tell, it seems to be working. Mind you, when you combine aspects of one of Vans’ most slept on silhouettes (the Lampin) with a pre-existing high-end Swedish concept then you’re kind of onto a winner in an industry where every brand is trying to reinvent the five most popular models over and over again with different names and minor tweaks to avoid accusations of plagiarism. Trust a guy who has no qualms about getting his cock out numerous times on his own videos to stick two fingers up to the established rules of shoe business and go off on a tangent.
Last Resorts look to me as though they’re designed to still look good even if you Rambo the fuck out of them and tie them so tight that you’re basically wearing splints. Utility-wise, that quality is probably highly relevant given the amount of dropping-off-weird-shit-to-grind that goes on in this clip. Similarly, where once having your laces as loose as hell and puffing up your tongues indicated that you liked hip hop, switch crooks and weed, maybe cranking your Last Resorts tight like a stitched wound signposts your allegiance to weird earrings, stick and poke tattoos and gap to grinds? It’s a confusing world these days.
Onto the clip itself: knucks to Pontus for having zero issues with giving himself opening props. To paraphrase one of Big Brother’s greatest-ever captions:
‘I’m Pontus Alv, this is my cock, this is my wallie: fuck you!’
Nick Rios, Dane Brady and Aaron Loreth open it up with a load of skating that appears simple and doable but is in fact destined to put most of us in A&E, (or in a corridor awaiting triage because everyone’s rightfully on strike due to shit wages, if you live in the UK). Following said trio is that Ludwig guy who I have a hard time taking seriously despite him clearly ripping. This is partly because he dresses like Paddington Bear on his way to Hogwarts and partly because he has the look of a 1980s Scandinavian pop star. I’ll never meet the guy but I do feel slightly bad about flippantly dissing him like that so I’ll throw in this to make amends: at least he’s not running transparent Superstars.
I can’t remember if I’ve met Billy Trick or not, nor can I remember if his name is real or if it’s a skateboarding nom de plume but either way, riding off a fucking bus stop to 5050 on a kerb is mental. Llongyfarchiadau dyn mawr.
Last Resort’s two ‘big box’ pros Jesse Alba and Chris ‘Mango’ Millic close this one off, (alongside contributions from Polar heads Paul Grund and David Stenstrom) with a lot of very good skating which, like the opening trio, probably seems easy enough on first watch. Jesse and Chris have interesting back stories with the former being the result of Salba sauce impregnating a woman leading to a second generation skate pro (Steve ‘Salba’ Alba is his father), and the latter being a kind of Otaku savant who first rose to fame via the Slap forum’s abortive attempt at a skateboarding X-Factor. I’ll be honest, I’ve always thought Frog Skateboards (Jesse and Chris’ brand) was shite but that’s probably because I last learned a trick in 2011. With that said, my father can’t frontside grind any pool in existence, nor have I sunk a Jägermeister shot out of a shoe that someone pays me to wear so if the question is, ‘who’s the wanker?’ then the answer is ‘me’.
Jesse and Chris do so many weird ride-ons, manny to manny variations and generally just rip the shit out of strange spots that even if you think stitching beads onto Vans Old Skools looks wack, you’ve no choice but to slow clap the sheer brilliance of this duo. That shit that Millic does at the end where he ollies onto the chain and then goes into manual on a skateboard nicked from 1986 is just straight-up fucked. The cool guys have their lane and the freaks have theirs and to his credit, Pontus has picked a side.
I genuinely love this clip despite the stumbling attempts to be funny that precede this moment of sincerity. It reminds me of getting punched in the face for the crime of simply wearing Airwalks in public back in 1988 and as such, all involved deserve to be applauded for their contribution to the shoe landscape. Big up Paddington, big up weird earrings, big up Last Resort.
After that justifiably positive ender I feel compelled to finish on this statement.
As an English teacher, whilst I fully appreciate the power of alliteration and of allusion,
Alv’s Angels
must be one of the worst video titles ever. Thank God gasmask pulled it off. Bravo for not giving a fuck what anyone else thinks.
Jante 11:00
I knew that this would be one of the best videos that Free put out all year before I even watched it. Scandinavia in general, and Sweden in particular, is a cultural powerhouse when it comes to skateboarding. These vast countries with their relatively small populations and high levels of taxation seem to produce skateboarders above and beyond what you’d expect from demographics alone. The reason for this eludes me: is it an affinity for sports and outdoor activities exponentially enhanced by long periods of winter? Is it a consequence of a functioning education system that champions creativity and self-actualization? Or is it simply the result of societies more attuned to the idea that all endeavours that utilize the mind and the body in tandem are worthy and to be celebrated?
Whatever the reason is, anyone looking for evidence of how remarkable the skate scenes in the true north of Europe are need look no further than Fritte Söderström’s
Jante
series. This is the fourth episode, which builds upon the groundwork of the previous edits with many of the same faces, and features the same extraordinary filming, editing and music curation.
From the moment the opening titles fade, you’re thrown in a world where handrail lines are filmed backwards, or ‘from the front’, with a level of skill and composition that ought to make other highly-celebrated filmers weep with embarrassment.
Architecture certainly plays a part in making Fritte’s videos so startling as this crew are clearly on a mission scouring cities throughout Sweden for spots; particularly ones that allow Fritte to roll backwards at high speeds filming his mates attack all manner of street furniture.
The fruits of these labours are bonkers. Housing estates with perfect rails and endless meandering banks running downhill seem far too commonplace to be accidental. Is this some drainage design feature common to colder countries maybe? In the same way that bus stops which smell of piss and cheap skunk are a recurrent design feature of UK cities? I guess it could relate to the omnipresence of cyclists throughout Scandinavia too, right? Whatever ever it is, when the snow’s melted, it appears that every city in Sweden is an accidental skatepark. Do you think Fritte practices these filmed-from-the-front lines first? Doesn’t seem that hellride to do so but it’s far wiser than rolling backwards into a river at 35mph one assumes.
There’s a glimpse of what I think is Sweden’s oldest skatepark situated in the small town of Falkenberg, a few miles south of Gothenburg in the second part of this clip. Automobilen was built in 1978 and was comprised of a plexiglass halfpipe and a concrete snake run, which is the only bit still standing today.
You can see Simon Hallberg blast a pop shove it tailgrab over one of Automobilen’s venerable bumps at about 46 seconds in. From my cursory research, this thing is hard to find, even harder to skate and usually full of stagnant water, so extrapolate from that the effort that went in to get the 10 seconds of footage featured. Worth it? Yeah, obviously: history bitch.
Cutting straight from that to some supremely handsome fellow called Ville dressed in all-black fakie heelflipping over a stairs/fence configuration is a perfect summation of the degree of thought that goes into Fritte’s output.
I think I described his videos as ‘cerebral’ last year whilst getting frothy about how hot Gustav is and the statement still stands. You could hand this Jante video in as a University dissertation and probably come out wearing a mortarboard and a Freemason ring, such is its cultural density. Or maybe I’ve just lost it because my heating is finally working after a month of freezing to death?
As we move further inside the
Jante
universe, everyone’s favourite drawing of Shaggy from
Scooby Doo
comes to life, Vincent Huhta, drops numerous instances of rubber-legged insanity. The nighttime line with the nosewheelie shove it to instant nollie shove nosewheelie alone is funky gibbon Daewon level. Add to that the lengthy feeble through the corner where he looks as comfy as if he was sitting in a foot spa on a tropical beach and you realize that you’re witnessing something truly exceptional. The music, the filming, the spot, the style, the skater: there is nothing throwaway here – expect to see tricks from this Vincent part chopped up and repackaged by repost Insta accounts who couldn’t point at him if he was living in their back garden for years to come. Sublime ability.
On that topic, this one quite fittingly ends on a sort of shared section featuring Gustav Tønnesen, Fillip Almqvist and Martin Sanberg. Now whilst it’s ‘the curtains’, embedded in the spirit of this Jante series is the very Swedish aversion to trying to flex how you’re better than anyone else so despite ending on three supremely talented skaters – it maintains the same level as the rest of the clip. Either Gustav is deliberately only being 90% amazing or everyone in this crew is fucking incredible at skating as well – I’m opting for the latter. As for Gustav, what else can you say that hasn’t already been said? Part supermodel, part Norwegian demi-God this elegant motherfucker can basically do any trick on any obstacle. Whatever you’re paying him adidas; it’s not enough.
The clip ends as magnificently as it begins with a 30-foot long frontside bluntslide from Martin Sandberg. As for the meaning of the title, here’s my take: the newest Jante clip? I’m giving it
11:00
out of ten. Astounding.
Hollandsch Diep
I really struggled to limit this list to ten, simply because there were so many amazing clips to pick from Free’s uploads this year. I’ve also realised that there are more brand-driven videos than I perhaps anticipated but let’s be honest, it’s not like it really matters, does it? Whatever bullshit I summon up to chat about these videos pales in insignificance compared to the actual filmers and skaters who create them. Pretending otherwise would be the height of narcissism.
Due to this, and in recognition of his incredible contributions to skateboard culture under the ‘Memory Screen’ moniker, I’ve done a last-minute swerve and selected JM Sneep’s masterful
Hollandsch Diep
as the final video for this end-of-year round-up. Yes, it’s branded content paid for by Carhartt but ask yourselves, does that detract in any way from the sheer brilliance of this as a piece of culture? Does it bollocks. Also, it means that Mr Sneep can pay his bills and continue to enrich our lives. Plus, Carhartt make banging kegs which I feel like I’ve said a few times so far. Feel free to link your guy WIP if you’re listening.
Anyhow, onto the matter in hand: translated into English, the title comes out as ‘Dutch Deep’ I think. It’s also the name of a river which connects different parts of Holland together, which may or may not be a metaphor for the way this clip reps skating from all over the country as a cohesive and constantly flowing entity. So ‘deep’ as in depth of talent and spots: or ‘deep’ as in the extent and richness of Dutch skate history? Either way – there’s most definitely a statement being made here and it goes way beyond, ‘buy this gillet’.
As has been said elsewhere by Free, it does really seem that Dutch skating is finally garnering some of the global recognition it deserves, in part due to the consistently incredible output of Mr Sneep and his contemporaries.
I’ve described the
Jante
series as ‘cerebral’ here and
Perro Sismico
as being an ‘objet d’art’ which leaves me struggling to know how to adequately heap praise on
Hollandsch Diep
without repeating myself. This is both of those things and more, and to be honest, is probably the most complete and accomplished skate video that I’ve watched in a very long time.
This is branded content without any crass exhortations to buy stuff which presents the architecture that enables the skating as being as significant as the tricks themselves. In many ways this clip is as much an ode to Dutch street art and architecture as it is a skate video, something which, in the wrong hands, could come across as terribly pretentious but doesn’t here because Sneep is a master of his craft. The 16mm film establishing shots of each strange obstacle that the first trio hit resonates with meaning based entirely on their forms.
Goethe famously stated that ‘Architecture is frozen music’ and that is categorically the vibe that this intensely beautiful clip encompasses, which is pretty staggering given that, on some level at least, it exists to sell you trousers.
Such is the combined power of the skating and the film-making here that any awareness of the means of production immediately melts away, leaving you to enjoy what is essentially an enchanting piece of art.
Pontification aside, the skateboarding is brilliant throughout – from the moment that Sebastiaan cracks his head on the frontside (that’s the second H-Street reference if you’re counting) this delivers banging skating on otherworldly obstacles. It’s hard to go wrong when you’re pointing a camera at Rob Maatman generally, so when he’s helping you out by backside nosegrinding a giant aluminium spring – you’d have to try really hard to make this less than compelling viewing. Everyone else goes in – I liked the juxtaposition between Sebastiaan’s Yeti-like appearance and the grace with which he bounces off bike racks. That wavy obstacle that Daan skates a lot in the new Anti Hero video gets its first airing here too (unless those obstacles are everywhere in Holland) and there’s still enough conventional ledge tech via twinkle-toed Robbin De Wit to keep the other side of the room happy.
Quite a few pole jam evolutionary leaps in here too – who the hell considers frontside shove board bounce up a pole jam? These guys, that’s who…
Did I mention that Mr Sneep also fashioned the first enchanting track for this yet? Well yeah, he makes music too – it’s enough to make any self-proclaimed Renaissance man want to retrain as a plumber. So much talent in one human: sickening.
The second bit of this one features Joscha Aicher who looks like Jan Kliewer who’s been in the gym throughout lockdown and the glue-footed Lex Van Der Does who sounds like a super-criminal to my idiotic British ears. These two add even more skateboarding credits to the embarrassment of riches on offer and yet more crazy obstacles filmed impeccably.
I’ve found it hard to say anything remotely funny about
Hollandsch Diep
because despite watching it 15 times, all I can do is lose myself in it, which has to be the biggest compliment you can give to any skate clip, surely?
Undeniably, incontrovertibly exceptional in every respect: this deserves way more that the measly 21k views that it currently has. Go watch it now.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  September 4, 2018
Ordinary People of CPH Berlin
As skateboarders, we can become very consumed in our insular little
world. It’s easy to forget that we were once outsiders, staring mesmerised for the first time at some stranger blasting down the road.
During my time in Berlin, I decided to talk to passers-by who just happened to be in the same place as hundreds of screaming idiots on wheels. I wanted to find out what their deal was, and what they thought our deal was. Or whether they even thought us capable of having a deal at all.
I spent most of my time lost and on the periphery of timetabled events,
bouncing around just trying to keep up, but this was fine. I missed a whole bunch of skating, but some of the best conversations happen when on the periphery of things, and it was exactly where I wanted to be.
Read on for some insights into the minds of ‘ordinary people’.
–
Theo Acworth
.
1. Louis, Fabian & Tom.
I spotted these three straight away, and went up and told them they were brave for being there due to the bitchy nature of skaters. After a short conversation I had learnt a few things, chief among them being that they film their scootering on VX. Who knew? When asked what they thought about the session, they gave the response ‘There’s
a jump ramp onto the rail
… that’s kinda wack’. I laughed, and then left.
Technically these guys aren’t completely ‘ordinary’, but I really had no choice but to include them. I checked them on Instagram later and saw that they make phone edits to trap music and wear camo pants. They would have no trouble fitting in with most contemporary skateboarders.
2. Christopher.
He said he used to skate when he was a kid, but hasn’t done it for about ten years. When asked his thoughts on the session, his response was ‘I can’t see’. This was something I became pretty familiar with over the coming days.
3. Marco & Laura.
Laura was holding her phone above her head trying to get photos. I told her to elbow some of the skaters out of the way so she could have a closer look, but she said she had got what she needed already. They told me that this is the sort of thing that they expect to see in a city like Berlin, and seemed pretty happy about the whole experience.
4. Niels, Bjorn, and another guy who might have been called Mark.
Niels had brought his son Bjorn to Berlin to paint; they had stumbled upon a slip and die session, and they were loving it. The spontaneous collective energy that skateboarders can create out of thin air is pretty fucking primal. We’ll organise ourselves into a corridor of death around a few spilt beers, and will have a sick time skating and stacking full speed, surrounded by screaming strangers, just for a laugh. It was nice to see these guys enjoying skateboarding at its loosest.
5. The Medics.
They didn’t speak much English, so I spoke to them in bad German and didn’t understand a lot of what they said in response to my questions. They seemed interested-ish in the skating but were fairly detached. The one on the left said he was more into mountain biking anyway.
6. Laura and Kelian.
These guys were from Spain and were down for skateboarding. They come from the world of messenger biking, so I guess they share our perspective on pedestrians and cars being inconvenient but minor obstacles in life. They immediately recognised the magic of a group of like-minded people all stoked on the same thing.
We spoke about photography for a bit and Laura said that she never really takes photos of her life, she can’t be bothered. It made me think about how many skateboarders only skate when there is a camera pointed at them, and how it’s making us all stupider as a consequence.
7. Alexandra and Joachim.
These guys were leaning on their car next to a session, and had a great view of absolutely fuck all skating. Apparently they had stopped just for the skating though, and they found it funny that so many of us were walking around holding our boards, instead of riding them. I thought this was pretty funny, so I did a powerslide for them.
8. Alena & Pepper.
These two were watching a heavy rail session, as were many other unsuspecting people in the park. She seemed impressed with skateboarding, and also slightly wary of what I was doing with my camera. I tried to say hello to Pepper and she barked at me. Apparently she doesn’t like eye contact. Not sure what she thought about the skating.
10. I didn’t even speak to this girl.
I thought she looked too mellow to be interrupted. Anyone able to seem so peaceful with a million screaming skateboarders over the fence must be pretty cool though.
11. The Swedish girls. Iona, Marlene, Carla and Johanna.
I met them in a queue to get into a party and asked what had brought them there. They said that they were looking for skater boys, which I guess means that there’s something attractive about us despite the general dirt and sweat. I’m happily married, so I pointed them towards my dirty and sweaty friends. Joanna said that she wanted a pair of the heart sunglasses more than anything, so I gave her mine. She was thrilled.
12. Freeman Stan.
Apparently Freeman is his artist name. I don’t know what
kind of art he did. He had a book with him containing a list of skaters whose autographs he was hoping to get. So far he had found Youness, Phil Zwisjen and someone else whose name I couldn’t read. I wished him good luck, hoping he would meet his heroes and have a fantastic day.
Technically Stan wasn’t a completely ‘ordinary person’ either, but he was the
most stoked person I met all weekend, and I felt it necessary to include him in this story.
It brought me great delight to speak with so many strangers who were
experiencing a little bit of our world. I don’t know whether the people I met
were inspired to try skateboarding, or whether they made a mental note
never to talk to a skateboarder again and to book their children tennis
lessons as soon as they could.
Either way, I think that most of them got a sense of the freedom
we experience on a daily basis, and the fact that the world is a giant
playground to us, even when we’re crashing into it at full speed.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 9, 2016
HELride 2016
Following in the footsteps of Copenhagen Open,  Samu Karvonen and the HELride team have managed to once again come up with an event that goes far beyond what any traditional skate contest has to offer. Over a period of three days a series of events popped up in various parts of the city, ranging from the
three trick line hill bomb challenge
set up at the heart of a block party to the booze fuelled “death race” at the city’s legendary DIY spot. No runs, no first and last place and the only rules I can think of seemed like they were only there to be broken. It basically felt more like Notting Hill Carnival than a skateboard competition, only with guys like
Pat Duffy or Marius Syvanen in the mix
you end up witnessing some of the gnarliest shredding ever. Here are some Sam Ashley shots to give you a better idea of just how epic it’s been.
View Gallery | 22 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  July 29, 2021
Le Vrai Goat
Gauthier Rouger, 2021.
Photography in Bordeaux by Clément le Gall
Words by Arthur Derrien
‘When the day comes that I have to stop skating – which will probably be when I can no longer walk – I’m starting to feel like I won’t even regret it.’
Taken out of context I’m sure that statement sounds pretty melodramatic, but that’s probably because it bears the weight of almost 20 years of being a sponsored skater. Or should I say being ‘just a sponsored skater’ (which granted sounds a bit ridiculous). What I mean by this is that buried between those lines are all of the contradictions and the self-doubt that come with not being paid a living wage to ride your skateboard, despite it essentially being all you’ve done your whole life and all anyone around you – from your friends, to your sponsors, to the tiny Frenchman writing this article – want to see you do.
Switch kickflip
The first time I saw Gauthier in a magazine he was probably about 15. He was wearing cords, éS Accels, some dodgy striped H&M top, and just like every other French skater of my age who knew
Chill
was better than
Sugar
, I instantly wanted to be him. We all wore the uniform, we all wanted our noses to scrape the floor if we back smithed (I’d rarely get further than a smithty-50 though tbh) and we all HAD to learn hardflips that didn’t Muska so that we could one day do them down big stairs like he did in
Rise Up
(that never really worked out for me either). He basically had a cult following. This was around when Gauthier was just beginning to travel all over Europe with éS and Element (who soon after that would start paying him pretty well), and one of the first things I asked him when we caught up for this interview, was how his parents felt about him being sponsored and going on all these trips at that age: ‘I mean my mum wasn’t particularly keen for me to go…’ he explained. ‘Like most parents, school was the number one priority but she could tell this was something special for me and that I was the happiest boy in the world when I was on my board… Plus let’s be honest she had all these people at brands in her ear telling her that her son was talented and that he could really do something in skateboarding. And éS at the time was one of the biggest shoe brands… I guess I’m lucky that she really believed in me.’
Hearing that I could feel the adolescent in me thinking ‘we’re lucky too’: that
Welcome to éS
part
got rinsed, as did that
Big Push
where his suitcase never made it to the UK and he was stuck skating in those tiny black jorts for 10 days, as did that 3-part
éS
Euro tour
series where he was going around France and Spain with Mike Anderson and Sarmiento… But also the grown up I’m trying to kid myself that I am today was kind of there thinking: fuck getting all those mixed messages at that age. Like, ‘school is the absolute priority!’ but also ‘we all believe in you to make it in skating!’, which let’s face it, plants the seed that you don’t really have to worry about uni or whatever you want to do after school. You’re gifted and companies want to support you to focus on skating: why would any of that ever be going anywhere?
Backside smith grind
Fast forward a few years and
éS has been discontinued, he’s no longer on Element
, the money he was making from skateboarding has completely dried up and surprise, surprise, the beloved industry gatekeepers that were promising him fame and fortune are nowhere to be seen. It’s important at this point to make it very clear that Gauthier was not crying anyone a river about it then, nor is he now, it’s just quite an interesting journey with regards to thinking about how sponsorship works. Anyway when asked about how he felt about it all at the time he told me: ‘I don’t know, I mean just before that ended I’d gotten a little sushi delivery job because I needed proper payslips to be able to rent a place in Bordeaux. So I just naturally slipped into doing that really… And obviously I still skated, having sponsors or getting paid would never change that, that’s not why we do this, but you know it was very much for myself; I wasn’t really trying to film or anything. I guess there was that period a bit after that when I went on a couple of trips with
Lakai in France
, which was fun… But even then my motivation was nothing like it is today.’
What happened then? How come we just got treated to a legendary part in the Hélas video, a cover, tons of sick little bits in
various adidas edits
, this interview?! Supposedly he’s even filmed a full part we can release on the site when this interview drops (
it’s dropping on the 9th of August!
), and he’s sitting on a couple of minutes with
Minuit’s
Yoan Taillandier… Why is he suddenly so obsessed with giving it everything he’s got to be productive?
Spanish grind
Hélas is what happened. Like most French skaters of my generation, those boys watched everything that’s being discussed here unfold and have always known that he’s one of the most naturally gifted, flavoursome technicians our nation has ever produced (and that bar has been set pretty fucking high), so they did what all of us had silently wished we could do without knowing where to begin: they found a way to get him excited about filming again. It started by luring him into coming to Paris to reunite with old friends, and amongst all the pétanque, pastis and office after-parties they slowly got him out stacking more and more, took him on a few trips with very little pressure and gently convinced him to work towards a shared part with Karl (Salah). They basically created the perfect conditions for him to want to start sharing his magic with the world again… And it worked. He ended up with his own FULL part, which got the loudest cheers at the Eiffel Tower prem, and since then he’s been more active on the ‘gram than half the pros we follow. It’s a bloody miracle. Next time you find yourself at HDV or Répu, ask anyone in their late 20s/early 30s and they’ll tell you the same thing. It felt like a Mariano-esque comeback, only with Gauthier there was never that
Videos Days
part, until now we’d pretty much only ever been drip fed post-
Mouse
-era amounts of footage, which obviously only made you want it even more…
Gap to backside lipslide
‘Yeah… What’s crazy is that when I actually was getting paid to do it I was so young that I didn’t even really understand how it all worked or what was really expected of me,’ he explained. ‘I feel like I was just known as the kid that would skate flat next to the park at the Basel comp every year. I see myself now and I know that this is by far the best I’ve ever skated: I understand what’s important, how to think about putting together a part, etc. And you know, people tell me that they’re happy that I’m still doing it, that they want to see me skate. All I want to do is get as much footage as I possibly can out of the years that I can still skate like this, and I will. But also when earlier you asked me what’s been going on in my life… Well this is what’s been going on: every morning for the past couple of years I’ve been waking up and asking myself if today is the day I should sack it all off and just look for a job cleaning dishes in some Italian restaurant or something. That’s what’s been going on. Because I’m simply just not making enough to live like this right now.’
And there it is: the endless internal dilemma every sponsored skater living this life in limbo is subjected to, only probably exacerbated by having already been chewed up and spat out by the industry once. You know your time is running out but also that if there’s no proper money involved you’re realistically not going to be able to produce your best work, and not just because that full-time job will inevitably get in the way, but because good filmers deserve to be paid if they’re going to dedicate months/years of their lives to a project; they’ve got to eat too. If brands were lining up to invest in your future when you were 16, are you still allowed a shot at this at 33? Is there an age limit to this shit? How do you know if you’ve missed the boat? And should our industry be investing in all these young kids because of how we think they might skate in 15 years, or should we wait until they’re actual adults and their skating’s ‘matured’? If Tony’s spinning 900s at 50, could 30 be the new 20?
Switch heelflip
Since you can probably tell what I desperately want all the answers to those questions to be (and that I’m kind of spiralling) I’m going to take a step back from all that, and instead, finally offer you some much needed context to that opening quote. ‘When the day comes that I have to stop skating – which will probably be when I can no longer walk – I’m starting to feel like I won’t even regret it.’ After a short pause that sentence was actually followed up by: ‘Although if I did have to stop tomorrow, I know I’d also have less regrets than if I had had to stop five years ago.’
So sure all the uncertainty is weighing on him, just like it’s weighing on most of the people we feature in this mag (especially looking at the effects of all the Covid-related restructuring in certain parts of the skate industry), but all this was never about sponsors or money. Those things are just a means to an end. It’s about leaving something you’re proud of behind. Skaters, like musicians or artists of any kind, are obsessed with leaving a mark on this world, and it has to do justice to how much they excel at their craft. But excelling is subjective. Nate Jones
excelled
, but I’m sure that if you showed his video parts to half the people in the Olympics all you’d get is a ‘meh’, which is obviously completely fine. Things would get boring real quick if we all liked exactly the same thing. But following that logic you can then argue that there is no ‘peak’, or at least that it is also subjective, and since our skateboarding is constantly evolving for as long as we do it (my fav era of Jérémie Daclin is his current slappy phase not the kinked corner hubba one), we’re kind of all just constantly chasing our own tails… But then again that goes for everything: there will always be another ledge to wax, another potential DIY to build, another song you’d like to skate to or spot that could make a good photo. What matters is that these last few years of Gauthier really going for it gave us an amazingly filmed four-minute
Fellas
part to Scred Connexion, that I can go back to and rewatch every day of the week if I feel like it; or even this interview, which I guarantee half the skaters in Bordeaux will be ripping apart so that switch back tail can end up on their wall. This thirst of ours is insatiable because of the nature of what we do, it’s always going to be that way, but at least what we’ve already contributed to this culture nobody can take away from us.
Switch backside tailslide

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 11, 2020
Open Every Cell: the Carceral Spectre and Sonic Bridges of Kareem Campbell
Words by
José Vadi
Chad Muska is on my phone telling
me he is turning down his Skateboard Hall of Fame nomination in support of Kareem Campbell’s induction instead, and my mind drifts immediately back to my parent’s living room in southern California, watching dubbed VHS copies of both skater’s infamous videos,
Fulfill the Dream
by Shorty’s Skateboards and World Industries’
Trilogy
.
Muska
was
the summer of 1998. His
pro model shoe for éS
Footwear (and Osiris Footwear knockoffs) with its secret tongue pocket turned marijuana from a prop in a Snoop music video into a funky, odd-sized zip lock that got my friends suspended and turned tinfoil into pipes at sessions. His curated board sponsor Shorty’s was beneath most skaters’ feet and most non-skaters’ tops, one of the first real skate brands whose clothing was worn by non-skaters. Kareem too had this privilege with his briefly lived but extremely impactful Axion Footwear, the girls at my junior high rocking the white Mariano’s until they were handed down to their little brothers or boyfriends. Skateboarding was taking over the culture before the 900 ignited the catapult sending the industry into its most lucrative periods since an ’80s Hosoi kicked God in the chin floating in the ether between SoCal coping and the Milky Way mid-Christ air.
In addition to turning every curb into molted dollar store candle wax altars, skateboarding’s most disruptive quality was kids commandeering the living room console to obsessively watch skate videos. Entering the culture in the fall of 1996, my immediate holy trinity of foundational skate videos were
Welcome to Hell
,
Mouse
and
Trilogy
. I quickly discovered Spike Jonze had been on loan to the MTV masses; a particular generation will always associate him with
Video Days
and
Rubbish Heap
, while the generation after, like me, will admire his ‘Buddy Holly’ and ‘Cannonball’ or Dinosaur Jr. music videos before Mouse hit skate shops in 1996.
What didn’t occur to me was that my parents could also hear the unlicensed soul, punk, hip hop and beyond soundtracks booming from the living room to their safe space then-known as the kitchen table. They initially viewed skateboarding as a materially destructive potentially, cop-attracting activity that I shouldn’t be doing.
Certain videos were more appreciated than others. I’d try to almost dj the situation and create sonic and visual bridges between myself and my family through these destined-to-be cult classics. If a New York specific segment came on, like the 411VM section on Riverside Park or the NYC-montage in Transworld’s
Interface
and
The Reason
, I’d show my Pops who, despite leaving East Harlem by the early 1970s could still tell me what neighborhood and near which major intersection and/or subway stop the spot was located. My mother employed her knowledge of Los Angeles to call out spots, like the Cal State LA ledges in
Goldfish
or the concrete slabs of Inland Empire glory that is Chaffey High School.
Music is where our bridge found footing. They didn’t mind me turning up those videos that had soundtracks more affixed to their ear: soul, R&B, ’60s/’70s rock. Sometimes they even told me the artist of the song before I took the time to pause the credits and figure it out. Jeremy Wray slow-mo massive handrail grinds with John Lennon screaming “Alright!” at the end of Plan B’s
The Revolution
, or Brian Anderson’s anti-thought control Pink Floyd sound tracked introduction to skateboarding — these were appreciated but not nearly as sung along to as War’s “Magic Mountain”, Cymande’s “Brothers on the Slide”, or Mary J. Blige’s “I Love You” — just a handful of the classics featured on heavy rotation gems,
Trilogy
and
Mouse
. They understood why Spike Jonze for example used Curtis Mayfield’s “(Don’t Worry) If There’s a Hell Below We’re All Going to Go” for the
Brothas from Different Mothas
sketch and laughed at the inventiveness behind the
Chaplin sketch
featuring Eric Koston turning Torrance into a silent film set. It sparked conversations about what Mayfield meant by the hell below, and the context of his tunes during an era of Shaft, WattStax, Stevie Wonder, and how the 70s were really the 60s for BIPOC communities in America.
One afternoon, after watching Kareem Campbell’s
Trilogy
part probably for the third consecutive viewing that night, and probably the twentieth viewing that week, my mom laughed after his slow-motion nollie hardflip over the picnic table, saying “I like that line; it’s clever.”
It took me a moment to realize she was referring to the bar delivered by Nasir Jones aka Nas when he raps “I’d open every cell in Attica / send ‘em to Africa” painting his visual of what a world he ruled would look like, somewhat preceding Wyclef Jean’s “If I Were President” while spinning off Kurtis Blow and Scarface’s glowing global lights. Nas’ line is delivered without thew sound of Kareem’s beautifully flicked board, his catch and subsequent landing closing Nas’ line before a skate-only sound of Kareem’s final trick, a switch hardflip over that same table, crowning him King Reemo as the height of his game. Kareem’s part in
Trilogy
enabled my parents to see the socially conscious dimension of hip hop and how it related to The Last Poets albums they started playing when I turned ten.
Tales of the
World crew skating Lockwood
detail getting the pass from local gangs affiliated with Fabian Alomar’s family, but what to speak of the state sponsored violence of 1990s Los Angeles? These classic videos of the World era that put so many BIPOC skaters on the map were produced during the punitive three-strikes era for violent offenders driven by California’s then-Governor Pete Wilson.
Trilogy
as a production succeeded amidst a Los Angeles still reeling from the Los Angeles Riots years earlier, and a California grappling with anti-immigrant legislation like Gov. Wilson’s Proposition 187, which attempted to create a state-administered citizenship system that denied immigrants basic social services, stripping them of health care, access to education, and ultimately deemed unconstitutional.
The decade closed with the infamous Rampart scandal, exposing a violent, corrupt anti-gang task force Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums (CRASH) patrolling Rampart Village and neighboring areas. CRASH framed civilians and gang members alike in gang-related killings, committing perjury under oath to double-down on their false charges. The scandal resulted in over 100 civil cases filed against the LAPD and over $125 Million in punitive damages.
Like the recently exposed units in Compton with white supremacist ties
, CRASH had their own tattoos for their corrupt unit, full on gang shit funded by tax payer’s dollars.
The extent of the scandal is immeasurable two decades later, but what is known is that much of CRASH’s dirt was done near the greater Silver Lake, Echo Park and East Hollywood — areas of Los Angeles that Kareem and the World and Girl crews helped put on the map for skateboarders worldwide. As Nas says at the top of his raps, sound tracking Kareem’s USC line, “Imagine smoking weed in the streets without cops harassin’ / Imagine going to court with no trial.”
By
Trilogy’s
release in 1996, incarceration rates were increasing for Black communities, not only for three-strikes related charges, but predominantly for nonviolent crimes and drug offenses — despite the concurrent rise of violent crimes within white populations during the same ten-year period from 1985 to 1995.
“During the 10-year period, the number of black inmates serving time for drug offenses rose by an estimated 117,400, while the number of white inmates in for drug offenses rose by 64,900. Overall, the increasing number of drug offenders accounted for 42% of the total growth among black inmates and 26% of the growth among white inmates. In contrast, violent offenders accounted for the largest source of growth among white inmates up 102,900 in 10 years totaling 42% of the overall increase among white inmates. The number of black inmates serving time for violent offenses rose by about the same amount (103,800) but accounted for 37% of the total increase in black inmates.”
– U.S. Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin: Prisoners in 1996 (published June 1997)
These rates illuminate how Kareem and company created and documented some of the most amazing street skateboarding in the culture’s history at its most punitive era against Black citizens in Los Angeles by the city’s police forces.
Natas Kaupas wearing a Public Enemy shirt
whilst inventing street skateboarding in his now iconic 1989 T
ransworld
Pro Spotlight photos captured by J. Grant Brittain. : these photos inspired many white skaters to be down with hip hop, to recognize the irony of a skateboarder being labeled a Public Enemy, to explicitly back Chuck D’s burgeoning brainchild and implicitly say that Black Lives Matter. The scope of a cop in the crosshairs, Natas’ potentially bootleg P.E shirt and logo still speaks volumes in the wake of the skate industry’s responses (or lack thereof) to BLM and calls for greater equity and conversations centered around white privilege.
When a brown kid starts skateboarding in any era – for me, 1996 – they are entering a policed world that presumes their guilt, accelerated now by the four wheels propelling them, sometimes illegally, down city streets, schoolyards, back alleys. We enter society always as the Other and dismantle the systemic racism behind the idea of a skateboarder with every push, every pair of Dickies against dark skin above white wheels and neon wood, every pack of BIPOC kids bombing the streets, from spot to spot. Skateboarding is rebellion incarnate but mobbing spots with a pack of kids that looks like you feel closer to the physical reclamation of so-called public space. The excitement and terror fuelling this feeling is akin to wearing two Public Enemy shirts without the benefit of being a Natas in the eyes of the police — and bearing twice the targets on our backs. I felt the specter of police violence constantly. Cops separating me and white friends when we’d get kicked out of spots. The carceral specter was more present than an invisible hand but the choke felt just the same.
My parents knew the stats and the streets, growing up in Mexico by way of La Puente and Santurce, Puerto Rico by way of East Harlem — two hoods on either side of the states, knowing the threat of first impressions with kids like me and law enforcement. This lead to a mix of model minority like expectations and just sheer overly-hammered common sense, knowing even before skateboarding my privileges were different.
With skateboarding, the bleached hair, massive pants and beyond PG graphics of a post-
Love Child
skate era were culturally antithetical to long term goals of exemplar immigrant families, incorporated. In their eyes, the idea of voluntarily wearing a shirt that said AMERICAN ZERO was a privilege I’d never have despite being born in the states. I remember then their questioning of Independent Truck’s use of the iron cross logo, or even
Flip Skateboards “Hate Kill Destroy” t-shirts
with similar iconography. Camo pants normalized militarization. The idea of buying things you’d voluntarily destroy like decks and trucks and hardware and shoes and private property ticket violations to boot was insane, a middle finger to the working class where earned goods were polished, maintained for longevity and repeated use.
Muska’s actions allow us skateboarders who remember Kareem’s crooked grind cover with the red-black-and-green color text to reflect on the “What Ifs” surrounding Kareem’s career. Should he have gotten SOTY that year? Did Kareem face racism from bank lenders or cops not ready to see a Black man successfully skateboarding with a gold chain medallion bearing his company’s logo? The Menace montage in
Trilogy
alone is referenced more than some SOTY’s careers. This skit, and his mid-part letter to Shiloh, position Kareem as the workingman’s kingpin with a heart of gold and Hennessey at the helm of both Menace and World. Shiloh’s emancipation later in the video creates one of the more serious recognitions of the ongoing incarceration of Black Californians within skateboarding. The fact that Shiloh indeed filmed tricks in
his
Trilogy
part
the day he was released from jail demonstrates that fine line walked between incarceration and turning skateboarding into a profession, not a crime.
For BIPOC skaters, Kareem and World meant as much as Atiba Jefferson shooting
Misled Youth
era Sturt-biting angles and darkroom attempts, or Paul Rodriguez Jr.’s ascension to GOAT status and company owner. It’s the same pride of knowing Jovantae Turner’s light work is the work by which we measure a 360 flips’ excellence. Seeing yourself in skateboarding matters, and these skaters were some of its biggest architects.
I think about all of this in the wake of Muska’s decision, and
Kareem respectfully turning it down
, saying his time too will come, and that Muska deserves his shine in 2020. I think of all of this realizing as noted by the
Skating is Hard
podcast that there hasn’t been a Black skater inducted until 2019 despite the Skateboard Hall of Fame’s two decades plus existence. I think of all of this every time I step on a skateboard at Rockridge Curbs in Oakland, California, a neighborhood built on segregation, where housing announcements in 1909 proclaimed
“No negroes, no Chinese, no Japanese can build or lease in Rock Ridge Park.”
I think of all of this in the wake of my mom’s recent email, checking in and slightly reminiscing, before noting, “You have no idea how much I worried about you while you were out skating. But, I kept telling myself that I needed to give you the space to make your own mistakes and that whatever we had taught you would somehow surface and allow you to survive.”
It’s July 2020 and three LAPD officers were just charged with “falsifying records and obstructing justice by claiming without evidence that people they stopped were gang members or associates” — nearly two decades after the RAMPART scandal, Nas becoming a household name and Kareem originating his video game character in Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater.
The specter of illegitimate incarceration and the carceral middlemen between freedom and jail lurks around every session, as much as the colors on our shirts and the parts of towns where those colors mean trouble for any type of armed actors, and like my mother I too am lucky more trouble didn’t find our way – from the sets in Lockwood, the Nazi sympathizers in Huntington Beach, the everyday opportunists in the Inland Empire – there is an element to surviving as a BIPOC skater those who saw themselves as mirrored reflections of Muska will never understand. I hate the cliché of the journey being the point not the destination — tell that to someone in an overcrowded 1990s prison. Kareem was right decades before skateboarding was ready to listen – You gotta break out and I gotta break out – from the invisible biases to the literal abusive behavior, the forces threatening to imprison our edits, our stories, our letters from ever being received.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 27, 2015
Dani Quintero Interview
Dani, what to say about Dani, he and I clash! He drives me crazy; he just can’t sit still! How shall I put this, we go out on the streets and he is shouting constantly making noise or wallieing just about everything in site or drinking a six pack and if that’s not enough pushing me constantly to do a mosher drop. If you think you know someone with ADHD, you haven’t met Dani… He is next level!
Sometimes he may even come across as mean but in reality he is the shit! Going out with him is always going to be unpredictable; if you’re travelling with him it could be that he might throw your dinner on the floor or break the tent, but as soon as the party starts there is no one else that you’d rather have with you than Dani!
He is constantly on the move: whether it’s skating, playing in his band, out listening to music or at the local karaoke bar singing, he is there and it will always be fun. I’m still not sure if he actually sleeps…
I don’t know how you do it Dani, but never change! – Julio Arnau
All Photos by Gerard Riera
Interview by Julio Arnau and Jano Saez – Translated from Spanish by Patricio McCoubrey
Julio: Hey what’s up Dani? Late as usual hahaha!
Dani Quintero: Yeah man sorry, I ran out of petrol on my scooter.
Jano: Yeah sure thing!
Wallie tuck-knee indy grab.
Julio: Okay then Vagaba, (Dani’s nickname in Spanish coming from Vagabond for his nomadic lifestyle) have you changed your underwear before coming here?
Dani: Well if I’m honest yeah man, I’ve come from work and I changed them before leaving…
Jano: Why are you so nomadic bro?
Dani: I’m not sure man…
Julio: Now every one is gonna call you vagaba because of us…
Dani: Well in reality the concept seems a bit shite right, but its because I care so little and sometimes I go out and end up staying out for like three days without really caring and sofa surfing. I really don’t mind if I end up sleeping in a pile.
Gap to lipslide.
Julio: I’ve always envied those who are able to travel with just what they have on them, a backpack and ready, as if you were just going to pass the afternoon at the plaza and then spend the next week lost there….
Dani: Bro, I don’t know, but it really irritates me having to go with more than what is necessary. It’s so much easier to travel light so as to not to have to worry about my stuff constantly. I take my phone for Insta, tobacco, lighter and clothes… Well not so much clothes as they are not so essential and if you’re missing something you can always visit a market and pick up whatever you really need.
Jano: You don’t leave your glasses behind though right? And why do you always bring them if you never read anyways?
Dani: Ah man, leave it out, hahaha… I wear them to start getting used to them, the reality is I am quite blind. There have been times when I haven’t had them on and approached a group of people thinking it was you guys and it was a total random group of peeps, or sometimes I don’t realise I’m headed in the wrong direction on the metro. To be honest these glasses have changed my life; they’ve taken a good beating too. Jano managed to fix them for me one time. We were at a gig jumping up and being generally mad, and boom glasses off and me bouncing off a pillar and snapped them and banged my head at the same time. Jano to the rescue fixed them up, even if a bit wonky, and off we were in the gig continuing the madness with a bump on my head and my mad wonky glasses.
Polejam over the gap.
Julio: Do you not think some of your loss of sight comes from so much video game playing?
Dani: Yo dude you’re touching on a delicate subject! But yeah I love computer games and consoles, like the mega drive, Nintendo 64, Gameboy… I’ve got a ton of them at home!
Julio: And what do you reckon you’ve done more, wallies or played video games?
Dani: I love Zelda! Fuck wallies, play Zelda!
Julio: Okay this next question is from a colleague, Raul, he is asking if you have changed the name over from the scooter that you bought off his sister as she just got a fine through the post?!
Dani: Oh, shit, yeah its true I’ve not done it yet. I will do it eventually… It’s taking me years to get around to doing it hahaha… I always pay her the fines, when I get them… Bro I swapped that bike for like six boards with Raul.
Jano: I have always thought that his sister got the bad end of the deal; she only keeps getting your fines.
Dani: Yeah, thanks Raul, love you buddy!
Boardslide tailgrab.
Jano: So what do you prefer beer or wine?
Dani: I’ve always been down for the beers but recently Julio has been pussy so we don’t drink beers any more! But really I like both, saying that, it is summer and white wine goes down a right treat!
Julio: But they both give you a hangover of the worst kind, have you got any hangover cures or trick tips?
Dani: Well, I always get up, smashed, I make my way to the beach, and whilst it starts to warm up I go get some Cheetos, a packet of Pink panther wafers and a Fanta and for lunch some meatballs (laughs)… Basically just eat as much crap as possible and not drink any water!
Jano: Why is it that you are so good at imitating everyone from our crew?
Dani: Well I don’t think I really do a good job but I am always able to pick up on the small details that make every one different. People usually don’t focus on these details and then when I point it out every one goes mad for it…
Julio: Okay a really important question… What the hell is that prison tattoo on your arm all about? What is “
Brothers Choice
”?
Dani: It’s the only tattoo I have; well it’s something we have all had for a while. It’s like our crew, and it is the name of a video we have been working on, all filmed in Hi8. Bro we did these tatts pissed up at Miki’s house! It’s from a TV brand. Jano has this ancient Chinese TV at his house and that’s the brand name but it stuck as our crew name and video. In the video will be Jano, Cidras, Kevin, Nanaqui, Xavi, me and well the rest of the crew.
Beanplant to bluntslide.
Julio: And will you be doing the music for it to?
Dani: Yeah man, we are most definitely going to attempt making the music for it. We have a band, which consists of Jano, Marce Coque and myself. We have already done one song for a video, which was recorded in a DIY punk style.
Julio: You can say what it was for if you want…
Dani: Well, it was for that video Dani Millan did for Cons
Bonne nuit
, it did come out really well in the end. So our idea is to do something similar you know like how Frank Hirata did in the
Union Wheels video
. Those guys would skate, film and make the music for their videos. You hardly see that these days.
Julio: Well, what worries me is if you had to pay for that tattoo, did you pay with food or money?
Dani: Of course, but I paid Mikey with what he needed!
Julio: It’s just a joke bro! It’s because it bothers me a bit, but it was just to take the piss a bit.
Dani: It is shite and it hurt a bit too!
Ollie from the bump gap to nosebluntslide.
Jano: So how do you manage to travel so much, you never seem to have a job?
Dani: Well, in reality I’ve been fortunate thanks to Pali (Negrin) who always tries to get me on all the Cons trips that he can, and since he knows I come at little cost because I’m not bothered by living the high life and I live that hobo life style.
Julio: Ha, so the reality is that you’re on Cons because you don’t cost them hardly anything, and not even because you skate right?
Dani: Of course dude, I don’t spend anything, basically a score a month and 1 pair of shoes a year….
Jano: Bro, but you’ve been to Japan twice right?
Dani: Bro I went to Japan on 400 euros and when I was there I ran into some great luck… When we arrived the guys at FTC Tokyo paid us to model for some photos for a catalogue and then with that I was able to eat well for the rest of my stay.
Jano: Have you never thought of leaving skating to be a model instead?
Dani: Yes! Many a time! Before skating I had thought about it – when you’ve got the looks you’re blessed!
Julio: Okay, before throwing away your career with this interview do you want to thank anyone?
Jano: So basically the usual question, any thanks you want to make?
Julio: Actually can I thank someone? I want to thank
@rafihappy
, Rafi is Dani’s mum and without her we would not have been possible to locate you to do this interview. I want to make her Insta famous, she always likes all our photos and videos from the FTC account.
Dani:
@rafihappy
, GO FOLLOW!!! My mum has insta, #followforfollow
Okay I would like to thank Will at
Free
Skate Mag who has been nice to let me have this interview, you my people who have helped me with my skating and the peeps at FTC who are like my family. Brothers Choice who I am on the streets with every damn day. Pali for the all the shoes and taking me on all the Cons trips possible. Octavio for the Tangram wheels and Mike for the Polar goods and sorry for having to use Google translate just so I can email you for boards, which I’m sure makes you laugh every time! I hope this interview has been of interest to someone. Make the most of your crew… They are the ones who have your back.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  October 7, 2019
Vladimir Film Festival 2019 recap
Words by Will Harmon
Brijuni Island screening. Ph. Tomaž Šantl
It had just started to rain, so I ran over to the ‘Black Lady Bar’ to seek cover. Of course the bar was closed on a Wednesday at lunchtime, but the outside terrace gave me shelter from the torrential thunderstorm that day in Fažana, Croatia. A flash of lightning and a quick, loud boom of thunder startled me as a lightning bolt struck a tree just metres from Nikola Racan’s house. It was actually a thunderstorm exactly one week prior that started our trip to the Istrian region of Croatia for the 9th annual Vladimir Film Festival. I say a thunderstorm started our trip because about 14 of us all boarded a RyanAir flight from Stansted to head to Pula Wednesday the 25th and although it was a slightly bumpy ride with a bit of turbulence as the plane landed it seemed we weren’t too far behind schedule.
“Ladies and Gentlemen this is your captain speaking… Due to the severe thunderstorms in Pula tonight we made the decision to divert to Trieste Airport.”
We’d landed in Italy: two countries away. Great… Two and a half hours later some coaches pulled up to the Italian airport and after a bit more of a delay (the bus driver had just driven two hours straight and claimed: ‘I need a 30-minute break’ before he could drive again) we headed off to Pula by bus. Leaving Italy, passing through Slovenia and finally into Croatia we arrived at the Pula airport at 4am, just five hours after our intended arrival. No biggie… We got a taxi to Fažana, which was 15 minutes away and by around 4:30 am we were safely in our accommodation.
Nikola Racan and the exhibitors at the Brioni Hotel
Waking up the next day to the shining sun in the beautiful seaside town of Fažana almost made us forget about the previous night’s (or I should say that morning’s) debacle. I quick swim in the sea will sort everything out. The festival began later that day with a photo exhibition in the Brioni Hotel, with the various artists introduced by Vladimir’s founder and life of the party Nikola Racan. Ricardo Napoli gave an impassioned speech and was even brought to tears describing his frustrations with the USA’s immigration policies, which had led to him being kicked out of his home in New York City. The photo exhibition featured photos by Ricardo along with works by Brian Lotti, Tom Delion, Peter Fettich, Jenn Grabowski, Pete Thompson and Jordan Hill. Outside the hotel there was a skate market with independent brands and retailers including the Palomino, Absurd Skateboards, Simple Skateboards (from nearby town Rijeka), Dorkzone and others.
Independent retailers market
I hadn’t been to the Vladimir Film Festival since 2015 and after looking around at it all on that first night one thing was blatantly apparent: the festival had grown. Nikola and some friends started the festival way back in 2010. Croatia hosts many music festivals in the summer and a large portion of the local young people in the area work at these festivals each year. After working hard all summer Nikola and his friends had the idea to play some skate films on the big screen, drink some Rakija and unwind from the busy past few months. They emailed some independent skate filmmakers and asked them if they could play their films. Many said yes and in September 2010 the Vladimir Film Festival was born. Since then it’s only gotten more international. My first visit to the Festival was in 2014, and apart from myself, Jacob Harris and Aymeric Nocus everyone else attending that year was from the region (Slovenia, Italy, Croatia) and the total number of festival attendees was about 60. Now fast forward to 2019, the ninth year of the festival and the festival appeared to be hosting 300 people from all over… I met people this year from Brazil, Canada, the USA, Belgium, Poland, France, the UK, Sweden, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Austria, Serbia and the list goes on. Rumour has it that Fažana’s population increases by a third when Vladimir is on.
The films began at 8pm in a small courtyard outside of the hotel, first there was Javier Varillas’
The Ultimate Pessertive Remix
followed by Ricardo Napoli’s
Ciao
. The third film that evening was
To Ni Hec
, which I’m slightly embarrassed to say I’d never heard of before.
To Ni Hec
first came out in 2009; this was the tenth anniversary screening. It’s one of the most famous skate videos to come out of Slovenia and the guy who edited it, our friend and legendary good guy Tomaž Šantl, has the first part. I won’t describe it in detail, but it got some of the loudest cheers of the night. Have a watch for yourself below:
After
To Ni Hec
, which I’m guessing is a Balkan pronunciation of ‘Tony Hawk’, Sean Lomax premiered his
Cottonopolis
film in full. Sean was an early
pioneer in 4:3 ratio HD
filming, it’s refreshing to see a full-length in this format. After that everyone walked to Kasarna, which is an old community centre with a mini-ramp and sound system – basically where everyone parties the night away. At Kasarna was another photo exhibition by Urška Preis and the Radio FM DJs. The party went on well into the morning.
Unknown ripper at Kasarna DIY. Ph. Tomaž Šantl
Friday the 27th of September was day two of the festival and in the early afternoon everyone slowly made it to the Kasarna DIY. Tom Remillard was slashing the DIY like no other whilst Tibor was cooking up egg and mushroom (with beer batter) sandwiches and there were some serious Ping-pong competitions on the outdoor table. One of the great things about Vladimir is most of the action happens in the late afternoon or early evening. This gives you time to skate, swim, explore, nurse your hangover or do whatever you like before the main festivities begin. At 7pm in one of the main squares of Fažana, the Piazza Grande, Davy Van Laere had an exhibition of photos from Moscow. The Vans Europe team was there for support, but of course everyone there was already aware of this due to Doobie’s high-volumed antics. Victor Pellegrin is anything but low-key…
Vans Europe crew
This year Vladimir welcomed a musical guest: the legendary Daniel Lebron. Dani was invited to play flamenco guitar along with his friend Ramon Piñas Gracia on vocals. Not only the skateboarding festivalgoers but a lot of the local residents came out to see the performance and of course it was a treat. It’s quite impressive to see someone so skilled at playing a musical instrument whilst knowing that this is the guy that can do fakie hardflip switch crooked grinds.
Daniel Lebron and Ramon Piñas Gracia
After the performance and a huge round of applause the films began. It began with Paul Labadie’s
Mockba Life
, which you may recognise from the article of the same name in
Free
Issue 26. You’ll be able to see this edit right here on Freeskatemag.com next week (shameless plug!). Speaking of Russia, next up was Absurd Skateboard’s
Dno
, which as you can see below, stars Gosha Konyshev and some really big all-terrain wheels.
Next up was Jackson Davis’
You Slid Through
, which chronicles a trip to the Pacific Northwest with Jordan Thackeray, Alex Hallford and Sox who were all in attendance. It was pretty exciting to see J-Thaxx and the other Brits shredding Burnside and all the famous parks out there we’ve seen in videos so much.
The Piazza Grande in Fažana.
Krzysztof Godek’s
If You don’t skate – don’t start
featured many Polish rippers you don’t get to see too often. Not to be overlooked is the local video
Tabula Rasa
by Raul Žgomba. Raul’s crew collected footage from throughout Croatia and the results are pretty impressive. The rarely seen Balkan spots really stand out and make it easy on the eyes plus having rising Croatian star Antonio Pecovic start the video off can’t hurt! Be on the lookout for this video online when it’s released. And the last film of the evening was Luka Pinto’s
Crew Report Volume 1: Pandora’s Box
. It’s a full-length video of Jersey featuring Glen Fox, Dillon Catney, Jeremy Jones, Eduardo de Rocha and others. Luka worked on this for three years… So even though now he has a bum knee, he’s managed to film a full part in this much to everyone’s delights. After the videos played everyone headed back to Kasarna for a mini-ramp rampage and tunes by DJ Kool S. That night Daryl Dominguez and the Lovenskate guys really slayed the mini…
Alex Hallford, crailbone to fakie at Kasarna. Ph. Tomaž Šantl
On Saturday the festival typically moves over to nearby city Pula. In years past this meant a day of skating the ultra-smooth Pula streets and then ending up at the Kino Valli cinema in the evening and that’s exactly what happened again this year. It’s quite nice skating with different crews of people who wouldn’t normally skate together… You’d have Dillon Catney getting tech at the ledge spots whilst Daniel Lebron makes everyone’s jaws drop by his flatland prowess – at the same time Aymeric Nocus would be spinning incomprehensible step off no-comply variations to grind and then Daryl Dominguez was there complaining about his crappy bushings and tight trucks whilst Tom Delion was attacking the ledges with steez and speed. You sort those bushings out yet Daryl? Haha…
Julian Furones exhibition ay Kino Valli.
At 7pm everyone congregated at the Kino Valli cinema to check out an exhibition of photographs from Julian Furones. Then at about 8:30 everyone piled into the cinema. The first film was by Paul Botwid, which was a short documentary about Skate Nation, a charity from Stockholm set up to introduce skateboarding to immigrants. The
Skate Nation
documentary mainly focused on a few guys from Afghanistan. It’s always exciting seeing the joy newer skateboarders get from landing their first tricks, but knowing what these few had been through to get to Sweden their expressions and reactions were especially touching. Speaking of reactions, the second film titled, yep,
Reactions
, ha ha, was by David Mikulan. It chronicled the reactions of the public to skateboarding in Debrecen, a small city in Hungary. As you may imagine the old folks just don’t understand it and are generally quite rude. There are a few exceptions though, a few open-minded folk.
Nikola Racan and Paul Botwid at Kino Valli Cinema.
After the films about 300 people walked up the adjacent hill to the Pula Castle or “Kaštel”, a Venetian fortress built in 1633. This was the site of Josh Stewart’s Static XX exhibition. After everyone grabbed refreshments and Josh said a few words about how he started the
Static
series 20 years ago, the doors opened and we entered the castle.
Jost Stewart introducing his Static XX exhibition
To say the Static XX exhibition was impressive would be an understatement… First of all the venue was incredible, I don’t know how the Vladimir guys got permission to exhibit a skate exhibition in this nearly 400 year-old room, but it was really incredible to see Josh’s collected trinkets from the past 20 years in this beautiful space. There were the original tickets to the first Static premieres, a Beta-max master tape of Static I, small booklets with notes of 16mm shots Josh wanted to get, dozens of photos, multiple mini-DV tapes with descriptions like: 2004 Barcelona + Cairo Pyramids first day, India, Delhi 2005, Soy Panday, Ed Selego, Guru Khalsa, Bobby P. step to cella, Pat S. Crosby St Combo, etc. Knowing that Josh collected all these things as memories and keepsakes from his independent video series really warmed my heart. I’d expect this kind of exhibition from an older brand like Powell Peralta, but too something like this for the
Static
series… Well it’s just incredible. Josh told me that he had just recently thrown away a lot of keepsakes from his storage unit in Florida too, Nikola had contacted him about the idea of an exhibition just after. I can’t imagine what he must have gotten rid of, but luckily for our sake he kept a lot of gems to show at this exhibition.
Static XX exhibition in the Pula Kaštel
At 11pm we all moved down to the Cvajner Gallery to see a photo exhibition by Henry Kingsford. Henry’s photos captured the Carhartt team skating Santiago Calatrava’s architecture. Outside an impromptu midnight session took place on the steps of the Augustus Temple. A temple I might add, that was built in 2 B.C. Ride on grinds on a 2000-year-old building? No problem… Gilbert (James Gilbert) handled it, and then proceeded to rip of his England shirt, set it on fire and exclaim “Fuck Brexit” whilst giving it the finger. But I only saw this from afar, as the Cvajner Gallery Bar’s €2.50 Aperol Spritz’s just tasted too good.
Henry Kingsford exhibition at the Cvajner Gallery.
Sunday everyone moved pretty slow… The hangovers were eased with swims in the sea. At 6pm we all hopped on the ferryboat to the Brijuni Island for the last night of the festival. Brijuni Island is a National Park, so there are no cars over there. Apparently you can rent golf carts or bicycles, but when the ferry got there we just walked. We walked towards the sunset to see the Zebras.
Ferry ride leaving Fažana to Brijuni Island.
The island used to belong to the Yugoslavian dictator Tito. It was his private island and he liked to keep a lot of exotic pets. We saw loads of deer, hare, Zebras, horses, peacocks and more. But soon it was dark and we made it back to Tito’s former private cinema. It’s the third year of showing films on the island and I’m still gutted I missed the screening in 2016 of Colin Read’s
Spirit Quest
, which was the first film shown there.
Brijuni Zebras
But 2019 still had some things to watch… First was Jim Craven’s Pearls, the video piece that accompanied Henry Kingsford’s photos from his exhibition. Ollie Lock, Sylvain Tognelli, Joe Gavin and others skated Santiago Calatrava’s works in different cities and countries throughout Europe. Calatrava’s architecture rarely contains perpendicular angles, which makes it stand out and of course appealing to skateboarders seeking curved, slanted surfaces. After that was a change of pace, a little injection of humour with
Dork Zone 2
by Mike O’Shea, Nils Svensson and Phil Evans. Mike’s animations came to life as current and former students from Bryggeriet handled the skating and skits. Lastly was Tomas Campbell’s
Ye Olde Destruction
. Entirely filmed on 16mm the whole film is extraordinary, as well as the original soundtrack, but the most touching moment for me was to see footage of Ben Raemers skating on a car during one of the NorCal sessions.
Tito’s private cinema on Brijuni Island
After the film we all went to the Brijuni Island hotel, a hotel which looks like it’s straight out of a Wes Anderson movie. We had a quick drink there then it was back on the ferry to Fažana. Some wen to Kasarna again after for a BBQ and DJs, but I went back to the airBnB.
Monday night there was a skate quiz at the Black Lady bar. The bar gets its name not from the owner’s colour of skin (don’t worry she’s white), but for here Black Death Metal look and taste in music. Aymeric Nocus and Marko Zubak came up with the questions, which ranged from “What is the origin of the trick name ‘Lazer flip?’” (The sound effect added in from
Mike Hayes’ part
in
Timecode
by Alien Workshop, which only one team got this correct) to “What was the last trick in Nyjah’s
‘Til Death
part? (A crooked grind down a double-kink to nollie flip out, which every team missed). We cleaned out the bar and drank what may have been our last Rakijas for a while.
Kamenjak
Tuesday the few people that were still in town headed out the rocks in Kamenjak. People jumped off cliffs, tall rocks, we swam through an underwater cave and then spotted a massive jellyfish. We soaked up the last bit of sun, drank sangria, ate Ćevapi sandwiches and played Ping-Pong at the nearby Jungle Bar until it got dark. The next day was a massive thunderstorm. Can’t complain about six days of good weather though. We all had a late lunch, said our goodbyes and watched as the sky cleared to produce a breath-taking last sunset. Off to the airport in some taxi vans, back to England where autumn temperatures were already in full swing. Thank you Nikola, Marina, Marko, Tibor, Aymeric, Butko and everyone else that helped make another incredible year at Vladimir. A few friends even got Vladimir tattoos this time. Can’t wait until next year… Tenth annual Vladimir in 2020! Whoop whoop! See you there…
Fažana sunset

================================================================================

BY Will  •  December 20, 2016
Magnus Bordewick Interview
Portrait by Lars Gartå
I knew Magnus through friends way before I moved to Oslo, but we never really kicked it. One of his homies lived in the same apartment as my girlfriend (at the time) so I kinda got to know him personally through always hanging out at that apartment. The first time we went skating together (just the two of us),
I will never forget… I’m a pretty shy and awkward guy, and he’s the polar opposite – I remember he was just blazing down the street while I tried my best to follow him, hitting every curb cut in sight, dodging old ladies, grinding unwaxed ledges, all going mach-10. All of a sudden he tried to back 50-50 this way-too-tall flatbar against a wall, got onto it, kinda slipped out, his cellphone and iPod smashed on the ground and he just picked them up, put them back in his cargo pockets without even looking to see if they had survived and just continued cruising like nothing happened. I remember thinking ‘this guy is out of his mind!’ I still think he’s out of his mind from time to time, but in the best possible way. – Pekka
Interview by Arthur Derrien
Hey buddy!
Magnus: Hey man where are you?
At home in London…
I thought you lived in Barca?
Not really, when I last saw you out there I was just subletting this room to get away for the winter.
That’s really smart! I was considering doing something like that…
I mean you kind of have to now that you skate for Sour, that’s what they do!
Ha ha, yeah, I do really want to escape as much of this winter as possible, and Barca is the easiest and best way for sure. I’ve been going to Barca every winter for a while now, staying with Gustav and the boys, but hopefully I’ll be there even more this winter! It’s already getting cold and rainy here (Oslo) and come November the proper winter kicks in. That’s when there’s really no point being here anymore.
Let’s just hope the weather holds until you get enough photos to finish this interview… How exactly did you end up skating for Sour?
I’ve known Gustav (Tønnesen) since I was a kid… Him, Spengan, Nisse and Lomar used to live together in this apartment near Paral-lel, when they were still riding for Sweet. So I got to know them and all the other Sour boys through Gustav when I was visiting. This summer I was skating with Gustav in Stavanger in Norway, during the Norwegian championship contest and he asked me if I wanted to ride for Sour. I’m hyped!
Pekka (who Magnus films with) was telling me it was a lot harder for you to get photos than to get clips, mainly because the nature of your skating is so spontaneous. Would you agree with him?
Yeah but I mean it’s probably like that with most skaters that aren’t from California right? It’s so much more fun and so much easier to cruise around, find a spot and take it on the go. I don’t know how they do the whole drive for a long time then get out of the car, immediately try a gnarly trick and then move on. But maybe that’s something you just get used to liking…
Fakie varial flip at the Oslo City Hall. Ph. Lars Gartå
I guess that’s why shooting photos somehow feels even more rehearsed than filming.
Yeah it’s true, but it shouldn’t necessarily have to be like that though, right? If you have a mate that shoots photos and is down to cruise around for the session there’s no reason why that couldn’t work.
I guess most of the top photographers are just in high demand and can’t allocate as much time to one person, which makes it harder to do this…
That’s true… And the probability of ending up with nothing at the end of the day is maybe also higher for a photographer than it is for a filmer. Like you don’t necessarily need a specific plan to get a funky line or pretty much anything when it comes to filming a video part, but for a good photo a lot more things have to be in check for it to work out both for the photographer and the skater. Then again, I feel you always end up with a better result when you don’t plan out everything and expect too much to happen.
And if you are filming, are you always out with Pekka? (Pekka is the Norwegian VX filmer who amongst other things made the new Nike SB
Karsten Kleppan/Jan Kongstein part
and the new Magnus part.)
Yeah, I’m always out with him. We are hanging out or skating together every day anyhow so it’s very natural and easy filming parts with him. We always have the same opinion about spots and generally how we want everything to look too, so it works out perfectly. Unless someone in the crew has a specific plan in some other area, we mostly cruise around the centre of Oslo as we both live there. We usually try to come up with a couple of loose ideas and go with the flow from there.
Is the centre of the city alright to skate during the week? Do you not get kicked out?
It’s usually fine… And if you get kicked out it’s usually just by people that are passing by or working/living at the place we are skating so you don’t really have to listen all the time. The worst thing they’ll do is stand in the way of the spot in which case you just have to be a little patient. You never get tickets or anything like that.
Backside 50-50 transfer. Ph. Vi Duc Truong
So if they call the police it’s not that big of a deal?
The police in Norway are really friendly, like super polite – way more than the security guards. The security guards are mostly pretty rude but that’s kind of a good thing because we don’t have to feel like assholes when we decide to keep on trying tricks after they’ve told us to leave. The police usually don’t have time or they don’t see the point in driving to the spot to kick us out. The few times they actually show up we know we have to give up and leave, but they always do it in a friendly way and never give out tickets.
In some of the clips from Pekka’s video it looks like you guys are swerving through groups of people. The city centre looks super busy, it kind of makes sense that it would be the pedestrians that get annoyed.
Yeah but most of the city isn’t like that, that’s really just when we skate the spots around the big shopping centres and stuff.
Someone told me that a lot of the time when you go on these missions you take a backpack with a whole new change of clothes… Can you explain that one?
Ha ha, yeah sometimes I do. Or, when I do I usually just bring another sweater or jacket or something. I guess it’s just that if I get one clip early in the day I want to look different in the next clip so all the clips stand out from each other.
What happens if you get more than two clips? Do you have to start mixing the tops and the bottoms?
Yeah then I’m fucked ha ha. I’ll have to go and buy some new clothes then, ha ha.
Kickflip in Oslo. Ph. Jørn Aagaard
You joke about it but I know you must spend a lot of money/time on clothes… I’ve seen all that Polo, Nautica and Helly Hansen…
Ha ha, I don’t want this whole interview to be about my clothes, but I guess I always just end up spending a lot of time on eBay during the winters. Winter is the internet season! It’s too easy to fall into that whole cycle of buying loads of stuff, selling what you don’t want, etc.
Apart for hunting down clothes what else do you get up to in the winter?
I don’t know, I guess you just kind of end up doing stuff normal people do: going to parties, watching movies and hanging out… I also walk more in the woods and in the parks with my dog during the winter. In the summer I usually just bring her to the skate session. I used to snowboard a lot when I was younger but I always ended up injuring myself because I thought I had the same control as if I was skating you know. It’s going to be better this year though because we’ll have three indoor parks as opposed to one outside of the city. A lot more skating this winter!
Ollie in Oslo. Ph. Lars Gartå
Do you have a job on the side or do you only skate?
I do have a job. You know that kind of American New Era hat shop called Lids? I work at this similar store called Lokk in Oslo, doing embroidery and stuff. Like I did the embroidery for these Sour hats (shows me his hat). Although I started getting paid by adidas so hopefully I’ll be able to work a bit less…
I heard before that job you had a pretty interesting way of getting by…
I have kind of always tried to work as little as possible so I could skate more. I used to have a very low rent for some time and during that time I was living off picking up people’s old furniture and selling it. We have this internet page where you can get rid of your old furniture and stuff for free if for example you’re moving out and don’t want to deal with it. One day I just went to Ikea, picked up a shopping cart to stack the furniture and started bringing what people would give away back to my apartment and resell it on the same page.
Would you ever consider living anywhere else than Oslo?
I don’t know, to me it’s the best city in the world!
Crooked grind in Oslo. Ph. Jørn Aagaard
But it’s so expensive! Like how much is a beer in a bar?
Usually almost 10 Euros…
What?!
But you get used to it you know. When I was younger we used to get really drunk at home and then slowly sober up during the night. Now we just go to the cheaper bars or try to drink more slowly. It’s not actually that bad. Plus, you know whenever you go away everything is going to be way cheaper anywhere else. You can live like a king no matter where you travel to!
With everything going on in Copenhagen and Malmö people tend to see Scandinavians as rather supportive of skateboarding. Would you say it’s also the case in Norway?
I think the Oslo X-Games definitely had a positive effect and helped change people’s mentalities towards skateboarding. As a whole since the X-Games it seems like people are mostly stoked when they see us out in the streets. Before that it definitely wasn’t the case…
Frontside wallride to 5-0 grind. Ph. Lars Gartå
Wait until they see skateboarding in the Olympics! They’re going to love you guys! What’s your thoughts on that whole situation?
I honestly don’t really care what people that don’t skate think about skateboarding and if there’s money in it for the skateboarders that want to be in it, then I think that’s good.
I’ve heard that the Olympics as an institution is pretty corrupt and fucked up. I don’t know too much about this but just the way they did it in Brazil is enough to get an idea of what they are about… Agreeing to build walls around the ghetto and letting Brazil use all these resources they for sure should have used to fix some of the many other problems in their society is pretty crazy. Regardless of if they involve skateboarding or not I don’t know if I back it as an institution.
So you are more anti- ‘The Olympics’ than you are anti- ‘skateboarding in the Olympics.’
Yeah basically I don’t want to be that guy that’s all ‘fuck everything that’s not core skateboarding!’ The skateboarding they’ll be showing isn’t necessarily the skateboarding I personally like the best, but skateboarding is (and should be) a lot of different things, we shouldn’t try to limit it. If people can enjoy it that way, that’s great!
So if you were asked to represent Norway in the Olympics you’d say yes then?
I don’t know, but I probably wouldn’t, ha ha.
Switch 50-50 grind. Ph. Lars Gartå
Really? But I heard you were the world record holder for the most back to back kickflips! How many was it? 508 in about an hour and a half am I right?
Ha ha, yeah something like that.
How did that come about?
I entered this thing called the Krux Kickflip Challenge and when I’d done more than the other kids the organiser was like ‘More! More! More’ until I’d completely kickflipped through my shoe. I remember being supposed to just win a pair of Krux trucks but they felt so sorry for me when they saw my shoes that I also got a free pair. I was like 13…
What have you got lined up for the rest of the year?
I’ll probably stay here in Oslo filming for Pekka’s video until the end of October then go to Barcelona to skate with the Sour guys. I also really want to go to New York this spring, so I hope that works out!
Sick, have you been to America before?
Yeah I went to LA on an Etnies trip when I was younger but I didn’t really like it that much though. Maybe we were in the wrong place or something. We did way too much driving to go from spot to spot and a lot of the times we just got kicked out before the session even started. I remember having the feeling that the place was really dead too, like if you’d step out of the house these huge roads would be empty and all look the same. Then again we weren’t staying downtown, it’s probably quite different there.
50-50 grind in Oslo. Ph. Lars Gartå
What’s the deal with Pekka’s new video then? Is it going to be only filmed in Norway and edited to Norwegian music again?
Yep. It’s gonna be called
Tigerstaden
. That translates to ‘the tiger city’. It’s an old nickname for Oslo because people thought of the city as dangerous place. The first thing you see when you walk out the doors at the central station in Oslo is a huge tiger statue.
Sick. His last one (
Firetre
) was incredible. Can you tell us who else is going to be in this one?
Yeah I agree. It’s so good for the Norwegian skate scene that Pekka started making full length videos! The scene here is so strong, it’s great to see it showcased properly! Hermann Stene, Eirik Ballo, Jan Henrik Kongstein and Heitor Da Silva will all have full parts and then there will be a few split ones from Henrik Lund, Marcus Shaw, Jonatan Drab and a few others. Karsten Kleppan was supposed to share a part with Jan Henrik Kongstein in the video as well, but recovering from the shoulder injury is unfortunately taking a little too long a time. He will definitely have some tricks though!
Thanks, that’s one to look forward to then!
Fakie heelflip in Oslo. Ph. Krzystof Godek

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  January 22, 2024
Jante – 9:19
Staring into the Sun
Helsinki photography by Justus Hirvi
Words by Axel Lindquist
There are enough skateboard stories told about the ferry between Stockholm and Helsinki already, but I will tell you ours anyway: sitting in the Jacuzzi with Vincent, Axel and Simon, I overheard a middle-aged man sitting in the Jacuzzi next to ours, talking to his colleague. He was sad, on the verge of crying; the lord of conflicting emotions. It so happened, apparently, that his ex-wife had left him for another man, who now turns out to have leukaemia. The sad man told his colleague that he could not help but feel for his ex-wife, who he still loved, and the man who made her happy.
Jaakko Ojanen, frontside 5-0 backside 180 out
I went to bed early.
Tucked down in the big chaise sofa I lay with my book, reading:
‘In the coming age of increasingly technologically interrelated life, analogue tools and toys will be celebrated by humans; used as a symbol of revolution.’
The apartment is quiet. Next to me on the sofa lies Josef still sleeping, fully dressed, hat on, ass out, phone still in hand. On the floor next to us lies Axel in front of the massive TV, surrounded by three different remotes, none of which are able to make the Chromecast work. That’s how they sleep, the bravest of my fellow revolutionaries.
I put my book down and picked up my phone to start scrolling again. Luckily it’s not charged, so it’ll hopefully die before I do.
Eetu Toropainen, crooked grind to the bench
‘Historical fun fact number #7: Isaac Newton once tried looking at the sun in a mirror, essentially blinding himself for three days and experiencing afterimages for months.’
This ‘Historic fun fact number #7’ suddenly made a great impression on me: Naivety is crucial for human flourishing.
This understanding could have come to great use the previous day, standing at the ‘Itiksen ruukut’, the volcano spot. I’d been longing to skate this spot ever since
Bag of Suck
, but now standing there I had nothing to offer. Mind blank. Limited by my insecurities.
Vincent Huhta, switch backside lipslide
Surrounded by drunks and dark clouds I reach for my bag of wax when a warm whiff of lavender strikes me, and I pull out what’s left of the scented candle my girlfriend gave me for Christmas. Comforted by the warm smell I used the moment to express my concerns to Vincent.
— I don’t think I’m feeling it.
— Well don’t think then – feel it, he urged.
This was of course great advice. Only issue being that I felt that I had to take something in order to feel something in the first place.
Simon Hallberg, alley-oop frontside 180 fakie 5-0
But now, still under the blanket, knowing that even Sir Isaac Newton made a complete ass of himself I felt encouraged. I should just skate for the hell of it. So be it if I fail. To be bold is to dare the risk of being foolish. From now on this was my tactic to alleviate my anxiety. You sometimes have to look straight into the sun. Of course easier said than done, because as expected from a Jante trip: it was raining outside.
When the phone finally died I carefully climbed out of the sofa, restless. Helsinki is so expensive that you feel guilty for eating, but this didn’t stop Fritte from drinking on his job. The previous evening, while bombing backwards down the Stockmann double sets, stretched like a weasel, he managed to bang his elbow in the rail, opening a deep cut. The wound was soon dealt with and he continued with his work, claiming ‘What does not kill you makes you stronger.’ But now, when I carefully open the door to check on him, I find him sleeping with an arm like Popeye’s resting on his stomach. The constant peril for the free-thinker is having to rediscover that the sun will blind you, or that an old sock and some stickers are not a suitable substitute for a first aid kit.
Jaakko Ojanen, frontside shove-it
When I try to quietly close the door again, a draft is created. Our lessor had promised a sauna, and made sure to shut down any possible question about it by turning the whole apartment into one. That’s why Martin is sleeping on the balcony. Thinking about it I realise that even he, this well-structured single-child engineer, has an enthusiastically ingenuous approach to life. A couple of days prior, when we were all hiding from the rain under an elevated container, we found him constructing a man-size slingshot, frantically, as if our NATO membership depended on it. But as much as Swedes are really good at making weapons, Finns are really good at using them: this entertained us for a good couple of hours, launching rocks, sticks and beer cans at each other.
The time could have been greatly used to explore the many spots depicted in Justus Hirvi’s book ‘Under the Complex’, but considering this violent behaviour I can’t blame him for keeping us out.*
Axel Berggren, backside smith grind
*Don’t tell that to Stoltenberg.
In the kitchen the microwave reads 08:13. As I’m trying to figure out how the coffee machine works I notice a plastic bag on the kitchen table. When I pick it up it reeks of root cellar and mysteries, containing turquoise-veined mushrooms. Bolstered by my new convictions, ‘What’s the worst that could happen?’ all of a sudden feels like a convincing argument. This is as young as I’ll ever be again. I mean, if the other guys can do it.
Then it was time to head out to the weekend of Helsinki Helride, and my new approach served me well.
The open-minded is easily mistaken for being starry-eyed. But not me. This was a deliberate conviction: naivety
is crucial for human flourishing. I dared to stare straight into the sun, and so it turned out apparently that the skate scene was not so intimidating after all.
Kusti Kauppinen, switch frontside boardslide
Essentially tiny men in Big Boys. I had a blast watching the Simon Karlsson and Jonas Bünger demo at Suvilahti DIY, cherished every second skating infamous street spots with Simo Mäkelä, and I’m not even going to mention how
I beat Pat Duffy in the Koff race. All feeling and not thinking. Surrounded by many hundreds of like-minded people, all cheering for Felipe Nunes, Marius and the bunch skating the Arto-gap. Atmosphere euphoric. And just as I’m asking myself why I haven’t had this approach before, an old man barges through the crowd towards the massive jump ramp, covered only by a tiny blue helmet and ignorance, eyes wide as a hammer shark. For a second I’m still convinced by my new convictions, thinking that if this man has both the confidence and capability to ride down the hill then he is probably ready for the gap.
Victor Hoglund, kickflip
So be it if he does not make it. But as the second went by the whole crowd and I were taught life’s lesson of humbleness. The old man launches horizontally through the air and lands on the edge of the landing, breaking both his femurs, before disappearing into the water. To this day I wonder how he got up from there.
Considering his naivety I can only expect that he at least tried to walk.
Vincent Huhta, gap to backside smith grind
Back in the kitchen that early restless morning, as I Google how long the effect of the mushroom lasts I suddenly hear some noise from the living room and I put the bag down, saved by the bell.
I return to the sofa with my coffee. The TV is on, showing ‘Little Einsteins’ dubbed in Finnish.
I am yet again humbled, reminded that next to me, with one hand clutching his phone and the other down his pants, lies no madman of ignorance and luck, but simply one of the world’s most talented skateboarders. Free by competence.
Jaakko Ojanen, 50-50 to frontside crooked grind

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  March 27, 2023
Olivier Durou – Royal Flush
Video filmed and edited by Luc Mazières.
Photography from Boucle’s trial piece (originally featured in 🔴 issue 47) by Clément Le Gall.
Answering the prosecution on charges pertaining to the false advertising of a legitimate career in skateboarding you have before you Olivier Durou. The defendant has chosen to conduct his own defence, taking accountability for his actions in an attempt to prove his innocence.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Mr Olivier ‘Boucle’ Durou, at the age of 36, following several attempts at having a real career in the field, and with a current professional status only awarded on the grounds of compassion, if not to say pity, do you truly find it legitimate that you were finally granted a few pages in the pan-European publication known as
Free Skate Mag
?
Mr Durou (the defendant): For my defence, I’d like to underline that I started skateboarding at the age of 13. I’ve before my very eyes witnessed baggy pants turn into spray-on jeans and then back into baggy pants again. I’ve seen tricks that were once considered stinking become today’s staples and have been subjected to the revival of all the music that in my day was considered garbage.
In other words, I believe that I have at least some legitimacy, as a witness to the turbulent history of this discipline…
In addition to this, I’d like to reassure you that I highly doubt many people read the print version of this magazine and that their community is instead predominantly made up of fans of Instagram loops.
Exhibit #1 brought forth by the prosecution: photo of a slappy backside tailslide
Slappy backside tailslide, Bordeaux.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Mr Durou, could you tell us a little bit about this photo? Are we not looking here at a simple ride-on backside tailslide? Do you not think the fisheye of your accomplice Mr Clément Le Gall might have played a part in deceiving the editors of this magazine into believing the incline of this one was more impressive than the spot actually is? Or were you simply once again looking for aesthetics rather than difficulty? Were you by any chance under the influence of Leo Valls at the time of the events? And if so, why not have gone all the way and matched your outfit with the spot?
Mr Durou (the defendant): Objection your honour, the prosecution’s line of questioning is clearly Magentaphobic!
Judge: Sustained.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Could we then instead dive into the topic of why your equipment was covered in black spray paint? Were you by any chance embarrassed by your skateboard’s graphic? Something I could understand given the last few seasons from Rave Skateboards, but granted, it’s neither the time nor place for the trial of a company of such questionable taste… I will on the other hand though point out the absence of stickers from your footwear sponsor. Are you maybe not quite comfortable with the idea of skating for a huge sportswear multinational? What do you have to say for your defence?
Mr Durou (the defendant): Let’s start at the very beginning, which in this context is of course ‘where a kicker ends and a wallie begins’. According to my research on the Slap forums, the 45° angle seems to be the cut-off point, so with this incline being at a very acceptable 56°, to me, the spot is undeniably legit no matter the manoeuvre, with the fisheye only being used to accentuate the size of the obstacle, which, I’d like to note, is also very reasonable.
Moving on to your next point, I can’t help but feel these defamatory, out-of-place remarks about Rave’s graphics have a bit of a hidden agenda… One that aims at promoting Album, one of the company’s competitors. Especially with Mr Arno Wagner, one of the brand’s lobbyists sat right here in the front row…
Concerning what was said about the Swoosh –  whose representatives were unfortunately not able to make it to today’s trial –  it’s common knowledge that this is a company that only provides very few stickers to its riders, probably to tackle the increase of excessive photo incentive requests they’ve been dealing with as of late.
Finally, for a more objective appreciation of this photo’s popularity, I’d like to invite the members of the jury to rather simply refer to the number of Instagram likes and comments, which I expect will be quite consequential at the time of its publication. The number of reposts could also be recorded upon the jurors’ request.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Thank you Mr Durou, that will be all for now.
I would like to call upon Mr Clément Le Gall, your honour.
Mr Le Gall, are you the photographer who took this shot of Mr Durou backside tailsliding?
Mr Le Gall: Yes, that is correct.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Did Mr Durou come up with the idea for this photo or was this your initiative? Could it be that you were in fact the person who found this spot and decided it could make a good photo…?
Mr Le Gall: I’d like to clarify to the court that I currently reside in Biarritz and not in Bordeaux, unlike Mr Durou, who, if I remember correctly, told me that day that he had unearthed a spot that had supposedly never been skated. And to be perfectly frank, I could very well have passed by this spot without even noticing that something worthwhile could be done on it. In the Basque country, we are more focused on gaps and handrails… You know, the skate-boarding of real men if you don’t mind me saying.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Yes, I’m aware of your work, notably of your imagery showcasing the exploits of renowned Olympians such as Vincent Milou.
You did nevertheless choose to capture this particular stunt with a fisheye rather than shooting it long lens, is that correct?
Mr Le Gall: Yes, that is indeed also correct.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Was this your initiative or something that was forced upon you by Mr Durou?
Mr Le Gall: Hmm… To be honest it’s more that Mr Durou became very nervous when he saw how little interest I showed in the spot. Even if he didn’t explicitly ask for it, I immediately saw in his eyes that he wanted me to take my fisheye out of my bag. After a few seconds of hesitation, I complied under duress, one might say, but above all so as not to come into conflict with him.
He then got on with his business as if nothing had happened, even almost sending his board into the lens several times! I remember feeling as if all of a sudden I was dealing with someone else, almost as if he was in a trance, with only one thing on his mind: coverage…
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): I would like us to focus now on
this photo of Mr Valentin Bauer
, published in the same magazine, but two issues before that of the defendant.
Would you agree that this is the same manoeuvre as that of your friend Mr Durou?
Mr Le Gall: I was not present in one of these two instances so only the footage will be able to prove this.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): The video footage circulated online in November 2022, in which it can clearly be seen that both of these are indeed the same trick. Now as the professional in this field Mr Le Gall, can you confirm to us that the photo taken by a certain Rafal Wojnowski was, on the other hand, shot long lens and not fisheye?
Mr Le Gall: I’d like to start off by saying that I greatly admire the work of Mr Wojnowski and would like to salute his effort with the long lens. But for my defence, lying down at the bottom of a kicker, at night, in the carpark of the Pessac’s healthcare co-operative was probably slightly more uncomfortable than being sat facing a pole-jam in London at golden hour…
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): The mistreatment of photographers is unfortunately quite a common occurrence in our milieu… Mr Le Gall, did you by any chance have Mr Bauer’s photo in mind whilst shooting Mr Durou’s?
Mr Le Gall: Absolutely not! We were not aware of this photo for the simple and good reason that this is one of the first photos that was shot for this interview, and that it dates back to February 6, 2022. I invite you to cross-check this with the raw file’s metadata if further proof of this is needed.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): I see… And what was your and Mr Durou’s reaction to the discovery of the existence of Mr Bauer’s photo in the same magazine?
Mr Le Gall: It came as a complete shock to both me and Mr Durou, but it’s part of the game, you find yourself confronted with these situations quite often. I did nevertheless reach out to Mr Durou to share with him the unfortunate news, and I must admit that I instantly felt his stress levels increase, and his knee-jerk reaction was to start talking about the scaffolding photo. He was afraid someone might have had the same stupid idea… But visibly it doesn’t seem to be the case.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Thank you Mr Le Gall. No further questions for this witness your honour.
Ollie, Bordeaux.
I’d now like to once again call upon the defendant, Mr Olivier Durou, your honour.
Mr Durou, your photographer, Mr Le Gall, evokes situations where you’ve lost your temper. There’s also video evidence of you in very extreme states of rage while exercising your supposed profession, at times even going as far as subjecting yourself to bizarre forms of self-harm…
Do you often lose control and give in to anger whilst riding your skateboard Mr Durou? Do you not think that as a 36-year-old adult, you should be displaying a little bit more maturity?
Mr Durou (the defendant): I must admit that I sometimes have a little trouble managing my emotions and that sometimes something as insignificant as my board bouncing on the ground in the same way three times can be enough to trigger a loss of control, sometimes inflicting myself, what at the time feels like perfectly deserved, punches in the face.
And it’s not for lack of having a whole bunch of caring friends who repeatedly tell me that there’s no need to put myself in these states… It’s just that when they do it seems to have the opposite effect on me, and I find myself then three times more annoyed than before their interventions. But at the same time, this tends to occur in a context where they’re sat there drinking cans and smoking ciggies while I’m out there on my day off risking my poor, tender ligaments between two construction jobs. The only times most of these guys leave the skatepark is to hit the off-licence, so sometimes it’s hard to hear from them that I should relax… That being said, deep down I know they are right: getting angry is pointless. However, I try not to be too disheartened about not having a life as serene and filled with wisdom as them, out there waiting for the benefits office to validate their income support.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Speaking of income support, I read in your file that you get up every morning at 7am to work on construction sites. How do you explain that a so-called professional skateboarder has to get up early in the morning to work? At the same time, Mr Durou, I can’t imagine it being easy to make ends meet with so little photo incentive and no competitions won since 2004…
Mr Durou (the defendant): If you had checked your records properly you would have seen that I won something in Montauban in 2012 actually… But in the wider context of this line of questioning, that’s not even relevant. What is relevant, on the other hand, is that I chose to work in construction and renovate flats long before my status as a professional skater. Although it must be said that I’ve always dreamed about fully embracing the pro lifestyle, on you know, the 10 euros a day flat shares in Barca where you get to sleep on the corner of a couch, the weeks of blanked emails from your TMs when asking if they’ve finally unlocked the budget needed to get you a train ticket somewhere or reimburse you for the last ones you fronted, endlessly talking shit on all the young prodigies who have their eye on your spot without even knowing your name, having to sell your stuff at MACBA in order to buy yourself an Estrella or a Bisma, not being able to sleep because of a pain in the knee that refuses to let you catch a break, but most importantly, losing sight of the reasons you first fell in love with skateboarding, that feeling of freedom, and being able to do it wherever you want whenever you want, only for it to be replaced by the burden professional duty… Shit, where do I sign?!
Frontside nosebluntslide, Bordeaux.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): I’d now like to look into the nature of this professional status so much of this trial seems to hinge on, specifically your pro model Mr Durou. Could you explain to us how you were granted this sought-after distinction by Rave? Had you been warned in advance of this development? Was it following a request on your behalf? Or maybe even a decision that was taken internally in order to grant you a bit more credibility in the eyes of your other sponsors who undoubtedly
would have considered letting you go during COVID?
Mr Durou (the defendant): To be perfectly honest I myself struggle to explain it… Maybe the fact that I fractured a rib at Amélien Fourès’ pro party was interpreted as a call for help… Plus PJ Chapuis, the brand’s owner, owed me… After all, I was the one who had the contacts at
Sugar
skate mag.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Thank you Mr Durou. I would now like to call upon Mr Pierre Jean Chapuis to the stand, your honour.
Mr Chapuis, it seems that you are much more than Mr Durou’s simple Team Manager, you are also a close friend. Could you tell us about how the two of you met? Both being from good families, could it have been during a ball that one of your respective parents might have organised?
Mr Chapuis: No, it was not during a ball that I met the accused, but rather during an Emerica tour in Barcelona. This was probably in about 2010 I would say. We didn’t know each other at all, but we both skated for Emerica and I was admittedly a bit apprehensive about meeting the defendant because already at the time, his video parts showed very concerning anger management issues. I will not hide from you that the defendant was quite scary on the sessions… But surprisingly we became friends very quickly.
If I remember correctly Olivier was not yet living in Bordeaux at that time but we stayed in contact, and once settled, the defendant really became a good session partner and eventually even a friend. Him being a part of Rave was only the continuity of this friendship.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): How moving! Unfortunately, I doubt it’ll be enough to make the jurors bring out the Kleenex. Teaming up with close friends is commonplace in skateboarding and it’s well known that Rave Skateboards has turned pro certain key players of their team in order to avoid them getting snatched up by competitors. We’re of course talking here about young skaters, full of promise and extremely influential on social media, both because of their skateboarding output and their way of dressing.
What about Mr Durou though? I think we can all agree he absolutely does not fall into this category; don’t you think? Mr Chapuis, was turning the defendant pro a token gesture of your continued friendship? Or was it the result of certain ‘pressures’ from the defendant?
Mr Chapuis: Admittedly it is true that Mr Durou clearly does not fit into this category of person that you were able to mention. He is neither young nor booming and I won’t even start on his management of social media…  That being said, I do appreciate the professionalism the defendant has demonstrated during the many projects he has been able to carry out to fruition, and it is also worth noting that Mr Durou is currently preparing a part for his own defence, which will be published online alongside the interview at stake here.
Finally, and most importantly, we’d like to make it clear that only the defendant’s nickname has been printed on a board. As you can see here, only the word ‘
Boucle
’ is inscribed on the piece of wood, and not Olivier Durou.
Can we therefore really speak of a pro model?
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Thank you Mr Chapuis, I have no further questions.
Exhibit #2 brought forth by the prosecution: photo of the melon grab to backside lipslide.
Melon grab to backside lipslide, Paris.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): I now call upon Mr Luc Mazières, also known as ‘Lucci’.
Would you prefer to be referred to as  ‘Monsieur Lucci’ or ‘Monsieur Mazières’?
Mr Lucci: In light of the current situation, I would prefer if we kept it Mr Lucci.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Ok then Mr Lucci, you have for several years now been Mr Durou’s designated filmer, and we owe you, among other things, the ‘Boucle’ video published on the
Free Skate Mag
website in May 2021, is that correct?
Could you please tell us about the process of capturing this backside melon grab to backside lipslide with Mr Durou? A report dating back a few months shows that a slight coordination problem led to a bit of a grievance between Mr Durou and you. I would like to have your version of the events Mr Lucci. Are you at fault here, or was it yet another excess of anger from Mr Durou?
Mr Lucci: It is true that I have known Mr Durou for a few years now, and that we have a relationship as a filmer/skater. This has indeed led us to the production of a video called ‘
Boucle
’, Mr Durou had the last part of the video, which explains this choice of title.
Concerning the melon grab to backside lipslide… It’s a long story.
The shoot took place on the 27th of July last year, in Paris. Mr Durou couldn’t get that spot out of his head; it was a real obsession… From the first day, in fact, the order was given: ‘Stop Bir-Hakeim! Bump/Barrier spot!’. But this first day was a real failure for Mr Durou who struggled, as usual, for nearly two hours to land his trick. Only the obsession then worsened, and to my surprise the next morning Mr Durou’s objective was to go back to this spot! Which seemed like a rather questionable idea knowing that our stay in Paris was only for three days… Long story short, here we were back on the spot, with this feeling of déjà vu, our arguably ‘professional’ skateboarder on the sidewalk and myself on the bike path, praying that this day would bless us with a different fate than the one that preceded it. Quite quickly Mr Durou felt that he was going to power through, even if at times it looked like the desire to punch himself in the head might get the best of him. As for me, my task was simple: chasing Mr Durou with a fisheye that is worth more than a car. It was requested that I film it ‘bien Jap’, which to be clear your honour is French slang for filming up close and dynamic, in reference to the Japanese visionaries that perfected the use of this type of lens. Unfortunately, my filming was not at the height of the trick, which eventually ended up being landed perfectly. Mr Durou’s board completely disappears from the frame when he lands in backside lipslide… A bit of footage that remains puzzling by all accounts. A result I’m sure the mere mention of will have the defendants’ fists clenching.
So in all honestly, Mr Colucci, I think I have a share of responsibility in this story, but that said, his choice of trick may not have been the most adequate, and his scary mood swings certainly destabilised me. I can’t hide from you that it is still quite difficult for me to relive these traumatic events, when I rewatch these images I get flashes… These are painful memories… I just hope that one day we’ll be able to turn a page on the incident.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): I understand how difficult it must be Mr Lucci, thank you for testifying. Now beyond this filmer/skater relationship you described, would you say you share an emotional connection with Mr Durou? Something that could possibly even pertain to friendship? Or do you support the stress inflicted by our defendant solely because of the financial gain? I imagine that you are handsomely remunerated for this work, are you not Mr Lucci?
Mr Lucci: So yes! There is a friendship that exists… But I’d say Mr Durou has his own, very distinctive way of expressing his affection. Making me come back to a spot eight times to watch him roll around on the ground and scream, that’s his special way of being with me… And as far as the money is concerned, we both agreed early on that one pre-packaged sandwich per stacked clip would be the going rate. An arrangement that worked fine at the beginning, but which has, in view of everyone’s progress, become unacceptable… Recently Mr Durou has been paying me in socks from his shoe sponsor, at least it’s getting better!
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Thank you Mr Lucci. No further questions, your honour.
Pupecki grind, Bordeaux.
I would now like to call Mr Alex Richard to the stand.
Mr Richard, were you friends with Mr Durou before being teammates at Rave Skateboards?
Mr Richard: We met before the brand was launched, yes, and started skating together then.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): My records show that you are the team manager of a specialist retailer called Riot, in Bordeaux, is that correct?
Mr Richard: That is indeed correct, but I also undertake the roles of salesman and torturer of interns.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Was adding Mr Durou to Riot’s roster your decision? If so, what was your reasoning behind this decision?
Mr Richard: It was my decision, yes. Mr Durou has been an integral part of the Bordeaux scene for years now, so it only felt natural that he’d join the ranks of the skate shop. It was also an opportunity to show that our company in no way shows signs of discrimination and ageism towards more mature riders.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Is the word you are looking for not ‘older’? I’m not under the impression that Mr Durou is someone who displays much real maturity…
Mr Durou (the defendant): Objection your honour, speculation.
Judge: Overruled!
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Between distributing the hottest brands and running raffles to win the right to buy the most coveted sneakers of the moment, Riot looks like a very lucrative company.
Have you seen the store’s sales figures increase since Mr Durou joined the team?
Mr Richard: No no, mature was unequivocally the term I wanted to use, in the sense that Mr Durou, in addition to being a practitioner in his thirties, also knows how to show, through his attitude and his career, a real maturity in his behaviour as a human being. Many practitioners these days love to show, in their way of being, that they are ‘OGs’, all the while demonstrating attitudes and behaviours sometimes worthy of elementary school playgrounds. I’m under the impression that, unlike most big names in major cities, Mr Durou continues to perform well, whilst also remaining very humble and normal because he knows that deep down, skateboarding is nothing more than a toy for young teenagers. (Chill out guys)
In terms of numbers, the skate industry is currently in the midst of a crisis, so the addition of a serious and responsible asset such as Mr Durou has only improved our performance and the influx of customers in the store.
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Thank you Mr Richard, I have no further questions.
Exhibit #3 brought forth by the prosecution: photo of a backside lipslide.
Backside lipslide, Bordeaux.
I’d like to once again call upon Mr Durou to answer some questions, in hope of adding this third piece of evidence to the file.
How is it possible that such a gloomy and lifeless photo was selected by the number one European skateboard magazine? Cheerfulness really isn’t your forte, is it Mr Durou?
Mr Durou (the defendant): Objection your honour, the prosecution is referring to my struggles with anxiety and depression, conditions which are entirely unrelated to the charges!
Judge: Objection overruled!
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): I have here the a signed affidavit of your teammate and friend Mr François Tizon, coach within the French federation of skateboarding and rollerblading since 2021. Mr Tizon states in the document that this supposed backside lipslide would in fact only be a backside disaster!
Can you Mr Durou, truthfully affirm, before this here court, that you actually slid this backside lipslide?
Mr Durou (the defendant): I remember this day well, all of my colleagues were in exceptional form, particularly Alex Richard and Amélien Foures, and several clips were logged that day. But when it got to the end of the session, the whole crew turned to me and Clément Le Gall uttered a sentence that still rings in my head like the slamming of a prison cell: ‘So Boucle, shall we hit this Tom Knox spot?’ Even though the bastard, excuse my French, knew very well that the KFC I’d ingested at lunch still weighed heavy on my stomach and legs, as the sweat that streamed down his temples showed clearly that he himself hadn’t finished digesting it… Trapped, I accepted, hoping that the multiple trips to the shop to stock up on cans might kill enough time for it to get dark before we’d get there. But I was all out of luck: the spot was closer than I remembered and before I knew it, there I was waxing this dusty ledge and repeatedly splatting off that drop, in hopes of miraculously squeezing out a make. Very quickly out of saliva, I somehow managed to force myself to get it over and done with, took the photo make, and sent Mr Le Gall back to his Photoshopping to correct the badly adjusted light or possibly add in a pigeon that wasn’t there in the first place. And that is why this back lip is unlikely to make it into the #QSTOP10…
Mr Guillaume Colucci (the prosecution): Thank you for bringing up the #QSTOP10. My records show that following the example of Mr Victor Campillo – who may I remind you has a droit de seigneur over the entire editorial team at
Free Skate Mag
– on May 7, 2021 you did actually manage to land yourself
a spot in their ranking
with a line made up of a wallie and ledge trick, on a spot in Bordeaux usually known for high-flying stunts. I’d like to point out though that you were relegated to the 9th position, unlike Mr Campillo, who was placed in 2nd position of this same Top 10, with one of the only ever filmed lines of him wearing a t-shirt.
I’d like to remind you Mr Durou that a new video part, hopefully with a slightly less egotistical title, is scheduled to be released alongside the article we’re currently discussing. So my question is, given your angry nature Mr Durou, how are you planning to deal with the possibility that a guest in your next video part might once again do better than you in this coveted ranking, or even show more impressive results on social media?
Mr Durou (the defendant): Like all rankings, we like to say we find them useless and meaningless, but then when it actually comes to it, we are never against appearing in them and preferably in the pole position. Regarding Mr Campillo’s line, you would have to be blind or the organiser of a contest in Dubai to not rank his line five places before mine. But to make sure this type of incident does not happen again, I’ve taken a few necessary precautions, notably making sure that I’m not sufficiently well dressed to stand a chance of entering the ranking again, and selecting solely average tricks from my most talented friends in order to maintain the illusion that I’m in fact the better skateboarder.
So in theory we shouldn’t find ourselves in this situation again. But you never know… In the unlikely event that an ollie accidentally flaps around my feet a little, or that a rollaway happens to be just sketchy enough to be labelled cool or spicy, I might unexpectedly find myself propelled back into the ranking…
Backside nosebluntslide, Bordeaux.
Mr Colucci’s closing arguments:
Your honour, members of the jury… It is impossible to end this in any other way than by effectively highlighting the essential parts of this terrible trial.
Never before has deception been seen on such a large scale. Mr Olivier Durou is an impostor, cheating us in order to feel like he exists in the world of skateboarding.
If nothing is done, this is the kind of usurper that will live on in printed media and leave us with a sense of shame… and depravity!
The hour of the final judgement has arrived and if the case I present seems tough, if it seems ruthless, it is only because the evidence is too.
Fuelled by hatred, the defendant is possessed by Kerry Getz.
The outbursts of our defendant’s anger give rise to scandal, self-harm and unforgivable insults which have time and time again killed the vibe at the spot, often even traumatising those sharing a session with him for life… Just like his photographer, who continues to act under fear of reprisals and his cameraman, who, for his part, films under constant pressure, incessantly repeating trips to the same spots, with the aim of one day satisfying the frustration of a cantankerous skateboarder.
Mr Durou, nicknamed the ‘poor man’s Sylvain Tognelli’ by the most objective critics of the always extremely balanced and fair Slap forum, makes a better impression under the pseudonym of ‘Boucle’. Hidden behind his little vintage polo shirts and his innocent smile, our defendant is not afraid to manipulate to get what he wants. And it’s not his girlfriend, Fanny, who will tell you otherwise. This poor, innocent, young girl was repeatedly forced to leave comments under the defendant’s footage, only to increase the social media visibility of our narcissistic pervert.
Today, before this court, the defendant has claimed that he is not guilty of having planned, executed or conspired to commit this long list of tricks that weren’t properly slid, or popped, on spots dull and unimportant.
This man stands before you as if he had never hypocritically storied a pair of Dunks he’d never wear, whilst remembering to thank his team manager, who only leaves Olivier Durou a spot on his sought-after Excel sheet out of commiseration.
How is it possible in 2023, to defend a person who exclusively feeds himself 3D-branded crisps and drinks only blue-coloured Powerade, which is supposed to represent red fruits?
How can this Vengaboys and Blink182 lover, with a bag of flatground tricks as consistent as Brian Wenning’s Tampa run, have a legitimate career in skateboarding?
Your honour, members of the jury, saying that Olivier ‘Boucle’ Durou deserves his place in the pages of this magazine equates to saying that anybody does…
Backside 180 to switch crooked grind, Paris.
The defendant Mr Durou’s closing arguments:
When you look at me, you first see a 36-year-old man trying to hide his incipient baldness with beanies and his lack of consistency with trendy trick selection.
But beyond these pertinent observations, I ask you to try to see in me the 13-year-old boy who managed to distract his diseased brain with an obsession healthier than any addiction available to a kid of that age.
From this obsession was born a passion, followed by the desire to be part of this world body and soul. Admittedly, the ratio of infeasible tricks in my repertoire is less impressive than that of Jeff Wong Song, but my re-learning of how to kickflip after five years of skating, just to be able to do it with the same foot placement as Andrew Reynolds should bear witness of my commitment to trying to do things well.
Admittedly, that child’s very pure motivation to, again and again, feel new skateboarding-related sensations has been replaced by counting likes and chasing clips, but I can still catch myself enjoying trying to learn how to backside disaster on a shitty quarterpipe during a morning sesh with Mr Le Gall… I also think that just for not having given up, when this same Mr Le Gall was selling my favourite photos to Stoops magazine, I deserve these few pages in Free Skateboard Magazine. So, when the time comes for you to decide my fate, ask yourself the question: What if this man was me? Put yourself in my shoes and ask yourself, what if my friends had decided to make my childhood dreams come true by turning me pro, despite it still taking me 30 tries to land a decent 50-50 on a quarterpipe? If a serious magazine did not see the sham hidden behind each of my photos and decided to publish my interview, what am I to do?

================================================================================

BY admin  •  May 5, 2023
Learning Curve(s) by Ben Powell
John Dahlquist at Bryggeriets Gymnasium, Malmö. Ph. Nils Svensson
Words by
Ben Powell
At the turn of the century, the idea that skateboarding would become an accepted subject of academic discourse, or that the act of riding around on a board would facilitate the blossoming of a global network of NGO’s delivering education to some of the most underprivileged kids in the world would’ve likely sounded like the confused Instagram ravings of a 1970s bowl skater.
Yet, in 2023, not only are the two statements above absolute indisputable truth, they’re not even close to encompassing the depth of skateboarding’s permeation into the world of learning.
If there is a question at the heart of what you’re about to read then it relates to the uncontested assumption, enshrined in our culture’s collective unconscious, that the process of learning how to skateboard is, in and of itself, inherently beneficial beyond the scope of trick collecting.
Or to put it another way: is there something intrinsic to the trial and error process of forcing your skateboard to bend to your will that can be transferred and used by educators as a tool of benefit to learning more generally?
According to the host of esteemed pedagogues, social justice advocates, academics, outreach workers, influencers, proselytisers and more besides contacted herein: the answer is a resounding ‘yes’.
It’s probably prudent to outline some of the most salient of the claims placing skateboarding in such an uncommon position as regards its potential to forge new pedagogic pathways at this point. (For the uninitiated, pedagogy is the field of study that concerns itself with the practice and the theory of teaching and by extension, the practice and theory of dispensing knowledge.)
First up, and a currently red-hot potato in teaching theory: resilience.
In mainstream educational discourse, ‘resilience’ is an approach to teaching that envisages learning as a journey that embraces, rather than shies away from trial and error. The relevance of that one to skateboarding should be obvious.
To quote skater, academic and novelist Kyle Beachy, ‘as skateboarders we are all profound believers in failure’s virtue.’
Current pedagogic research foregrounds the importance of concepts like collaborative learning; student empowerment; a reduction of the perceived distance between learner and teacher; learning through doing; relationship and community building; embedding joy into study; exposing pupils to a multiplicity of perspectives and the encouragement of autonomy and agency.
Even the most cursory glance at that list ought to give food for thought for anybody remotely interested in skateboarding. Does it matter that you unconsciously embraced ‘resilience’ whilst repeatedly slamming on your arse conquering a new trick at your local ledge? Does that unconsciousness diminish the possibility of that same learning process having worth in another context? Probably not…
As
Dr Esther Sayers
, skateboarder and Senior Lecturer in Education at Goldsmiths, University of London puts it:
‘A lot of current educational drivers are success oriented and this limits the learner. Skateboarding provides an alternative to standardised governmental learning because failure is accepted and celebrated, part of the package – without it you’re not really pushing yourself hard enough. This is massively important in my view.’
Heitor Da Silva airing over Alex Elfving at Bryggeriets, 2016. Ph. Nils Svensson
How this translates into educational settings where skateboarding is incorporated into learning is something that John Dahlquist, Vice Principal of Malmö’s
Bryggeriets Gymnasium
is well-placed to speak on. Whilst not the first school to integrate skateboarding into the curriculum (that accolade belongs to Stockholm’s Fryshuset), Bryggeriets is widely perceived as the crucible from which much of the current thinking about the educational utility-value of skateboarding was formed. Asked about the genesis of the institution, John recalls the early days where the idea of ‘a skateboard high school sounded like a joke to many parents so we had a lot to prove at first. I always enjoyed that though. Skateboard-ing thrives in a headwind.’
Over the intervening 17 years, Malmö’s tentative experiment has, as John modestly asserts, ‘gone from a small school trying to survive, to becoming established as a serious educational entity with a reputation for providing quality education, staffed by passionate teachers who, according to the parents of our students, motivate and care in a way that not all other schools do. This is the source of most pride to me, the relationships we manage to build by sharing interests with the students, whether that be skateboarding, art, photography, filmmaking, urban design, writing or any of the other pursuits that our students excel at. These relationships are at the heart of our success as a school.’
Dahlquist’s pride reflects another aspect of the effective utilisation of skate-boarding in both his and in other similarly minded educational establishments, namely that learning is enhanced when the relationship between student and teacher goes further than a superficial formality.
Like Bryggeriets,
Bordeaux’s Shifty School
enshrines skateboarding at the heart of its educational remit. Shifty’s founder and director Arnaud Dedieu acknowledges the inspiration provided by both Bryggeriets and Malmö, despite Shifty being an institution offering college degrees at Bachelor and Master level and also operating as a private, fee-paying institution rather than as a part of the public school system as in Sweden.
Dedieu contextualises the beginnings of Shifty within a wider endeavour to gain civic acceptance for skateboarding as a cultural force for good:
‘We were obviously very influenced by Bryggeriets and Malmö in general, particularly in the early days of Shifty. Through talking to Gustav Eden and John Dahlquist, we came to understand the model of Malmö – in so far as once skateboarding becomes accepted within the institutions of a city, in its schools, galleries, etc. then it becomes much easier for people outside of skateboarding to understand its value to a city as a whole.
Part of Shifty’s raison d’etre is to create the context for that acceptance on an institutional level and to work with other activist groups who are striving to demonstrate the positive effect that skateboarding and its associated culture can have for everyone, not just for skateboarders.’
Shifty, like Bryggeriets, is categorically not a school that you attend to improve your kickflips, although as both attest, you will probably get better at skateboarding just by being surrounded by other skateboarders whilst you engage in your studies. Where Bryggeriets encourages students to explore their interests within a curriculum that has skateboarding built into it, Shifty offers degree-level qualifications in precisely the skills that a passionate involve-ment in skateboarding culture tends to engender. The idea of Shifty is to harness these existing skate-related skill sets and to help students refine them further, into viable, and more importantly, enjoyable career paths.
As Dedieu explains, ‘Everyone who studies here is already a skateboarder. The teaching/learning aspect works because the teachers at Shifty are both renowned professionals in their field who are also skaters like Fred Mortagne or Nicolas Malinowsky or Benjamin Deberdt. We find this makes our learners much more resilient and focused on their learning because the people teaching them are
from the same cultural world and who have proven that it is possible to develop skills within skate-boarding that can be taken to the outside world to build careers.’
Matteo Portal-Meric, 360 flip, Bordeaux. Ph. Nathan Piet, 2nd year student at Shifty
Harnessing the aptitudes developed through a deep involvement in skate culture and redirecting them towards self-fulfilment is a recurrent theme that cuts across a myriad of educational spaces. Alongside the formal learning offered by institutions like Bryggeriets and Shifty, similar concepts of skateboarding’s transferable skill sets have empowered people like
Stefani Nurding
to offer learning pathways within the spheres of professionalised brand ambassadorship and social media influencing. As a long-time skateboarder, Nurding attributes skateboarding as the confidence builder that emboldened her to start her own brand
Salon skateboards
, and pursue entrepreneurial goals in the social media realm.
‘Skateboarding teaches you how to learn.’ states Nurding. ‘As an activity, skating makes it really clear how progression is related to how much energy you put in. You can apply that to all aspects of life because it shows you that even when you don’t understand something straight away, you can learn through repetition and hard work.’
These lessons fuel Nurding’s hugely successful personal brand, with her now packaging what she has learned and offering it to the outside world as an online course to help others ‘monetize their hobby’ as she puts it.
Similarly auto didactic entrepreneurship inspired by skills gleaned from skateboarding is evident in the rise of the GirlSkateUK platform. Founder Danni Gallacher has watched
GirlSkateUK
grow from a social media account designed to connect the then nascent female skateboard scene in the UK, into the multi-pronged enterprise it now is. Speaking on the topic of her ‘The Skate Retreat’ project, which offers skate coaching in a supportive and outdoor environment for brand new skaters, many of whom are starting out at a much older age than what was once the ‘average skateboarder’, Gallacher points out some of the specific obstacles to learning she faces in that context:
‘Ironically, the trial and error aspect of learning that skateboarding treasures actually seems to be one of the biggest hang-ups for the people that I coach. When we are younger we fail a lot, but as we get older we usually do one of three things: firstly we are (generally) a bit wiser from our past mistakes and so use that experience to reduce risk factors, secondly we tend to mask our failures or lack of knowledge about something, or we just try to avoid the scary thing altogether.’
Gallacher’s take on the principles that underpin her approach to adult learning ties into her awareness of the specificity of teaching adult beginners how to skate.
‘As we get older we develop a more nuanced hierarchy of needs for learning and thus my teaching style is influenced by andragogy principles (andragogy being the methods/practice used in adult education). As children we are content with simply knowing the how – but as adults we must also understand the why.
I often ask guests why they decided to choose skateboarding, and the most common answer is that it’s their way of challenging themselves, and to try something new. Overcoming fears, reaching new goals and beating PB’s becomes more about boosting confidence and mood, whilst improving stamina and endurance – rather than the desire to “get good”.’
Danni Gallacher, frontside hurricane grind to fakie, Sheffield. Ph. Reece Leung
Gallacher’s reference to established pedagogic theory is by no means unique, as both John Dahlquist and Arnaud Dedieu refer to a number of theorists when explaining their approaches too. For Dahlquist it is the writing of Welsh educationalist Dylan William that heavily influenced his own teaching practice. William, the so-called ‘guru of assessment’ argues that schools actively undermine learning due to their over emphasis on summative assessment (formal, exam-based, assessment of learning) due to its rigidity and inability to take into account the fact that learning is a continuously evolving journey rather than a quantifiable end point.
William argues that student learning should be assessed instead by what is known in education as formative assessment, due to its flexibility and presence throughout all stages of learning rather than just in an exam hall at the end. To use a skateboarding analogy, summative assessment would be adding up a skater’s points at the end of a formal skate contest to determine their worth, whereas formative assessment would be the encouragement, coping smashes and ‘yeahs’ thrown out during a communal session. It’s not difficult to see why one would empower and engage students more than the other but, as Dahlquist puts it:
‘I would hope that the whole school world agrees that summative assessments are the worst way to measure what someone actually has learnt. Grades do not seem to spark the motivation to learn things either. And note here, this is not an opinion but a conclusion that all scholars on the matter have arrived at using hard data to prove it. Still though, we have to grade students in the traditional sense, but at Bryggeriets Gymnasium we try to keep the grades away from the learning and only use it at the end of the course. To quote Billy Bragg, “Not everything that counts can be counted and not everything that can be counted counts.”’
Similarly, Arnaud Dedieu finds an intersection between established pedagogic thinking and what they do at Shifty.
‘One of the major problems in education generally relates to issues of partial concentration and engagement in learning.’ states Dedieu. ‘We try to get around that by enveloping the learning within a thing (skateboarding) that the students are already passionate about so that they want to learn. We’re not revolutionising anything – this is an old theory from the 19th century – popularised by Friedrich Froebel (the inventor of the kindergarten) back in the 1800s. Froebel believed that “play is the highest expression of human development in childhood for it alone is the free expression of what is in the child’s soul.” He emphasised the importance of play, of “intrinsic motivation”, not compartmentalising learning – linking everything. So the ideas at the core of what we do at Shifty are far from new – they are trendy again in education now but
these concepts link directly to our approach.’
Dedieu’s mindful nod towards the theory underpinning his practice belies both the extent and the depth of the current interchange between the world of academia and the burgeoning world of self-aware skate culture, which goes far beyond that touched on so far. Whilst in the field of educational theory it is clear that skateboarding has much to offer, skateboarding culture’s place within the halls of academia now extends into all manner of fields.
The work of Professor Iain Borden is well known and rightly praised as some of the most influential academic writing on skateboarding to come from an actual, active skateboarder. Borden began thinking about skateboarding early in his academic journey and posits an undergraduate essay he wrote in 1988 on skate culture in Los Angeles as possibly the first-ever academic piece on skating.
As Borden recalls, ‘When I got more serious about it in the 1990s there were still only two people writing about skateboarding; myself and Becky Beale, who wrote sociological studies of skateboarding competitions. Becky was not a skateboarder but she was very interested in the fact that skaters didn’t run competitions like other sports in so far as everyone is rooting for everyone and there’s an element of anarchy to them. I was more interested in the way that skateboarders appropriated architecture.’
Borden continued to write on the subject, because, as he puts it, ‘aside from the fundamental fact that I’m interested in skateboarding because I skate, skateboarding functions as a critique of what architecture is and that is my field of study. The critique operates around questions like, “is it a building? Is it an object? Is it a design process and how does that work?” Then on top of that I’m trying to add on that it’s the experience and the encounter with architecture that forms much of its meaning once it exists. In a simple sense, a piece of architecture is not the same object to every person who interacts with it and that’s where skateboarding’s use of architecture becomes a potent method of critique.’
With the publication of his seminal book ‘
Skateboarding, Space and the City: Architecture and the Body
’ in 2001, Borden’s conflation of French philosopher Henri Lefebvre’s thought and his own work on city space and the human experience of it, forever identified him as, in his own words, ‘that funny academic skateboarding guy.’ Ironically, Borden rarely talks about skateboarding in his day-to-day role as a teacher at University College London. ‘My skateboarding research is not something that I use to teach students. I use it more as a tool for my own research. What I do get, probably once every other day, is an email that says, “I’m a student studying – insert subject – and I’d love to speak to you about skateparks and sustainability” or whatever: 99 times out of 100 I say “yes” to those requests. I suppose that’s a way that I incorporate the skateboarding stuff I’ve done into a more traditional educational context.’
Through this process, Borden’s groundbreaking work continues to permeate into a myriad of specialisms, each one of which adopts skateboarding as a lens through which to ask certain questions. As he explains, ‘looked at through Lefebvre’s perspective, skateboarding is a bodily activity and because all of human life flows through the conduit of the human body: the moment you do something like skateboarding that is a public act, everything is going to flow through the body – urban space flows through it, politics flows through it, age, health, gender, race, creativity – everything. There is almost no subject, particularly for those of us with a Humanities background, that doesn’t connect to skateboarding in some way. I see this with the students who contact me for help with their research – one will be interested in skatepark design, another in the intersection between skateboarding and race, another in the graphic design or photographic aspects of skateboarding and so on. All these myriad things flow through skateboarding and this is why it is increasingly seen as having value as a learning tool in many contexts.’
This interconnectedness that Borden identifies is taken up by fellow academic and skater
Dr Neftalie Williams
, a sociologist and Postdoctoral Scholar teaching and researching in multiple arenas, alongside working with the US State Dept looking at using skateboarding as a tool for cultural diplomacy and advocacy work with The Tony Hawk Foundation. Williams’ 2020 PhD thesis entitled ‘Colour in the lines: The racial politics and possibilities of US skateboarding culture’ begins with an anecdote from his own experience as a skater of colour growing up in the USA. As a child, Williams bore witness to the fact that through their discovery of skateboarding, his peer group, ‘without realising it, were breaking down barriers between many different communities that had been put in place by people before us that stated that certain types of people shouldn’t be together in that way.’
For Williams, this potentially transformative aspect of the culture is ‘a phenomenon specific to skateboarding and the communities it generates because it operates in different spaces and in accordance with different dynamics. Because there are no teachers and you’re teaching yourselves, (which can have good and bad aspects), it creates an atmosphere without an imposed hierarchy of consensus rules determined by adults outside of the group. Along with that, the pre-existing codes of conduct governing behaviours related to being with groups that were not of the same racial or ethnic background didn’t have much effect, or at least much less so than in more traditional sports or social contexts. We carried that experience with us ever since and for me personally that has influenced all my subsequent work – that awareness that something special happened because of skateboarding at that early point.’
In his role as a teacher, Williams asks his students, ‘How do we use skateboarding and action sports culture as a lens through which to look at social justice issues and how do we go about trying to solve the problems that the world is facing?’ This approach comes from a position of belief that ‘we have an entire ecosystem within skateboarding that provides a model of how to confront many of these problems and then to extrapolate from that, ways to take that and use it towards broader societal goals, policies and initiatives.’
Williams is clear about his position within the burgeoning focus on skateboarding’s potential as a force for social good.
‘For me, as a black man in America, everything is slightly different to the mainstream academic position that has accepted skateboarding as a worthwhile object of study because, to put it simply, I’ve been black the whole time.
Just understanding the way that racism plays out in everyday life makes it really important for me that people understand that skateboarding has the potential to unlock some of these things.’
There are caveats however, something that Williams is keen to point out, particularly when skateboarding finds itself in the realm of ‘sport for development’, which has traditionally seen sporting activities evangelised as a panacea for a multitude of social exclusion and access issues.
‘You could set up a skateboard NGO and attempt to deal with all manner of issues and try to repair things with sincere intentions but still end up doing that from a position of an internalised colonial mindset. This is avoidable, but only through being completely awake to that potential pitfall. You have to be aware of all the tensions within each group and this is the downside of a lot of more mainstream “sport for development” initiatives that are only partially aware of these tensions.’
Williams does see many positive developments in the current approach of NGOs and social outreach programs using skateboarding as a route to engagement however: ‘I think not long ago, this would not be a part of the conversation simply because people didn’t understand how black and brown lives had been oppressed on the daily and thus couldn’t incorporate that awareness into their approaches. People are much more aware now and the conversation is much more nuanced and informed. That has come about because of people whose lived experience encompasses that exposure to oppression so that skateboarding is now in a position to be used as a tool in many different fields whilst being conscious of not repeating all the mistakes of the past.’
Williams’ reference to NGOs and the exponential growth in social outreach and welfare work undertaken by the numerous organisations using skateboarding as a tool is timely and perhaps one of the most interesting ways in which skate culture and educational aspirations have become intertwined.
Free Movement, Athens. Ph. Aidan Frere-Smith
Will Ascott, one of the founders of
Free Movement
, an Athens-based NGO working with refugees and displaced people in Greece’s capital, explains how skateboarding fits into their model.
‘All that mattered really was that it was fun. I had ideas of how I might be able to adapt what I’d seen in Palestine and apply it in a worthwhile way in the Athenian context, but logistically, the main issue for us was how we accessed these refugee camps on the outskirts of Athens so everything had to be mobile.’
Accordingly, Ascott and his colleagues would drive mobile ramps and skate equipment to various camps around the city and set up skateboard sessions aimed at trying to reintroduce a little joy into the kids’ lives, along with improving socialisation skills.
‘In the early days, especially in some of the more chaotic camp environments where you’d have a lot of kids who’d experienced heavy trauma, you’d get huge differences in abilities even down to simple things like being able to sit in a circle and do some stretches together before trying anything skate related.’
Free Movement’s educational remit revolved around three core principles: social cohesion, well-being and empowerment – all three of which were incorporated into the skateboard sessions the group provided. There were obstacles to delivery however, ones specific to the geo-political context that Free Movement were working within.
‘Our initial educational focus would be to just encourage the kids to share space and be around each other. There’s a whole other layer at work there too because even within the refugee communities themselves there is a lot of hostility between different ethnic or religious groups. So to begin with, the outcomes of using skateboarding extended as far as trying to get kids from different groups to be together peacefully and of course to encourage as many girls to participate as possible.’
Despite the inevitable burnout associated with working within such spaces Ascott is sanguine about Free Movement’s future since they became more city-based.
‘In the first few years when we worked solely in the camps, people were supportive of what we were doing but there was very little overlap between us and the indigenous skate scene. Early on the team was mainly British whereas now our volunteers come from a much more diverse demographic. Also, many of the ideas at the heart of Free Movement and other NGOs relating to the value of skating as an educational and social tool are much more accepted in skateboarding generally these days – particularly around issues like female participation and access – those are part of everyday discourse in this city’s skate scene and internationally. This has led to stronger connections being made between disparate groups where we now see local Athenian skaters delivering lessons to all manner of kids who are interested. It’s much more organic and non-hierarchical now.’
Vuyo Cekiso, Programs Officer at
Skateistan
South Africa echoes much of Ascott’s enthusiasm for the way that skateboarding can reach displaced children.
‘The majority of our students are foreign nationals who have found themselves in South Africa and thus have limited or no access to education here because of a lack of documentation. So there is a learning gap straight away.’
Cekiso explains how skateboarding’s hands-on learning mentorship, which takes place in Skateistan’s skatepark long before the pupils enter the classroom, helps to build trust in children who’ve often been through traumatic upheaval prior to their arrival.
‘Play is a very good instrument with which to address education. This is something that skateboarding teaches: a new student who doesn’t know how to skate will find that there is a coach literally holding their hand teaching them something as basic as how to stand up whilst rolling. Naturally through that process, trust and rapport is already being established. By the time we get to class, a child has already created a relationship with this person.’
Skateistan Johannesburg. Ph. Skateistan
Skateistan Johannesburg
operates as an after school program aiming to fill in gaps in learning for children in precarious situations who’ve had difficult relationships with mainstream school learning often due to poverty.
Cekiso frames her approach to education as being one with ‘fun as its core principle’ that aims to connect classroom learning to real life situations related to the shared passion of skateboarding, which chimes clearly with the philosophy at the heart of both Bryggeriets’ and Shifty’s ethos too.
Cekiso explains: ‘Most of our students do not enjoy mathematics when they first arrive at the skate school. To them it’s this complicated, complex thing that has normalised the idea that only some of the students will understand it, leaving those who don’t understand maths excluded from learning. Here at Skateistan we took the maths curriculum and placed into it practicality. If we are talking about sums and measurements then skateparks are built, literally, around measurements. So we would address aspects of mathematics by pointing to the angles, the measurements and relationships of shapes within the skatepark that the students use every day. We use what we have to address the problems that our students have.’
Johannesburg’s skate school, like all NGOs using skateboarding, also focuses on inclusivity using the board as a tool to empower women and girls by creating a safe space in the middle of a city, which as Cekiso attests, can be genuinely very dangerous.
‘Every Tuesday is our women-only day and all those sessions are run by female coaches because representation is important: “nothing about us without us.”
We’ve done a lot of work around female-to-female mentoring as a way to try and break up some of the stereotypes that exist around what women and girls can do. We have a lot of students who come from very rural, traditional communities where gender stereotypes are still very much in place. So we try by all means to say that this thing (skateboarding) is here to stay and that these young women will be the people making this impact.’
Asked if she could encapsulate why she believes in the educational utility of skateboarding, Cekiso is unequivocal.
‘Skateboarding unites. Just in the context of South Africa, Skateistan has successfully taken children from the streets and into school using nothing more than a skateboard. Through that we have managed to create a safe space for children to learn and skateboarding enabled that because it inherently presents a powerful way to break down limitations created by certain social dynamics. Simple things like what girls can and can’t do – skateboarding provides a platform to interrogate questions such as that. Skateboarding is a tool through which we can address access, we can address safety, we can address inclusion, we can address education – just talking about it fills me with joy.’
What better way to conclude than that?
Naturally, this piece has only managed to interrogate a tiny fragment of this huge and ever evolving field that combines skateboarding and education so, for those interested in reading further: a cursory web search of any of the people or institutions involved will throw open infinite new vistas to explore.
Huge thanks and praise to everybody who took the time to share their wisdom here and to all those people who push humanity forwards in classrooms across the world on a daily basis.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  September 2, 2019
Skateboarding, Pedagogy and Motherhood
Photos: Rafal Wojnowski.
My first chat with Esther Sayers happened shortly after I spoke at this year’s
Pushing Boarders
. Pushing Boarders, if you’ve never heard of it, is basically a conference that brings together academics, charity workers, teachers, professional skateboarders, journalists and anyone else that believes the skateboard community needs to get together and have some serious chats if it’s to ever become as progressive and inclusive as we want it to be. It’s somewhere you go to learn and in my case, well… learning wasn’t always easy (you’ll see what I mean when the footage of these talks go up). Anyway, given how visibly shook I was after my Q and A ended, a lot of my friends came up to me to reassure me, telling me not to worry or that I ‘did well’. This, for some reason, didn’t really do much for me… Maybe because it was expected from my mates, maybe because for me this whole thing wasn’t about ‘doing well’; either way it didn’t have the same impact as the few sentences I exchanged with Esther. The general gist of our conversation was the following: she’d also recently found herself at the heart of a heated panel discussion, answering questions from the point of view of her own experience she’d similarly come across as defensive and eventually, like me, it had completely backfired and gotten quite messy. But it wasn’t necessarily her words that touched me… It was the fact that this incredible human, a bowl carving mother of three who’d presented her fascinating research on one of the previous panels, had gone out of her way to make someone she’d never met feel better, just because she could. At that very moment it was exactly what I needed to keep learning and I thought: if any of what just happened exists in her approach to pedagogy, I want to hear about it, because it works.
Which brings us to this interview… Once back in London I met Esther at Raemers Park for a mid-session chat about how skateboarding ties in with her teaching and research, as well as what she took away from Pushing Boarders. I even got to meet her crew!
– Arthur Derrien
Can you start off by telling me a little bit about what you do?
I am an academic at Goldsmiths: I teach in the learning department and I teach Art. I have a PhD which gives me the title of Doctor and my PhD research revolves around art galleries, inclusion and young people within the Youth Program at Tate Modern for the past ten or eleven years.
The early part of my career was about getting young people interested to participate in looking at modern contemporary art, and using creative strategies to involve them.
Now, my research interests have shifted. It is still about participation but I’ve become interested in looking at the field of skateboarding as a kind of creative practice, as a community and a culture which is inherently inclusive but also inherently exclusive, because of the basic premise that you have to participate in order to become part of it, and that it takes a certain level of skill… It doesn’t mean to be exclusive: it is. But anybody can have a go.
I am interested in what that does to people’s motivation to take part, because one of the things in working with art galleries is that you always had to get new audiences motivated to get involved with the art and that was always the most difficult thing. There are all sorts of learning strategies and theoretical strategies about motivation…
So anyway… I found myself in a university environment with three kids (who are 14, 12 and nine at the moment) and two years ago, they started to learn to skateboard and at that point, I learned to skateboard myself. I got interested in it through them and having been part of that learning journey which in turn has made me part of the skate community, I’ve become more and more interested in how people learn to skate, how it is social, communal and how we share ideas.
With all of my professional interest in education and the way people learn, I was struck by the fact that when we are in a skatepark, a 10-year-old is my teacher sometimes and then someone else’s teacher and that we only take on the role of the teacher for 30 seconds or two minutes, at which point we become a learner again, because we are all learning something all the time.
So looking theoretically and ideologically at learning as being something which is quite equitable and trying to avoid the idea of this ‘expert’ teacher and this ‘stupid’ learner (it is an exaggeration, but I don’t like that model where somebody has all the knowledge and somebody is empty of knowledge), in skateboarding and the skate community, that doesn’t happen. That’s why I think it is a really interesting model… I look at how people learn to skateboard and take it into my day job and the teaching I do.
So adapting that model to a university context…
Yeah, and using it to understand the learning process better and the things which have been problematic – or ‘blocks’ – in a lot of mainstream teaching and learning. So basically using it to better understand why young people have not been motivated to learn, which causes enormous problems… Skateboarding has a lot to teach other aspects of the curriculum and I am trying to extract the things that can be applied in other areas.
As an academic, you have to have a research area and I’ve now made my research area into looking at skateboarding so I have to participate in that in order to understand the learning process from within myself. It’s an embodied learning and in research terms you’d call it perhaps an auto-ethnographic piece of research.
Because you are the main subject…
Yeah. Auto as in “autobiographical”. You are authoring your own ethnography, so your own look at culture… But through your own experience.
The other side of that is that it sometimes gives me an excuse to go skateboarding on a Tuesday afternoon and call it ‘research’!
I foresee that time spent indoors at University getting shorter and shorter…
Ha ha. Yeah my students find it hilarious that every session I teach, I manage to squeeze a skateboarding analogy into the lesson. They groan but genuinely I do think there are lots of crossovers in the way that we learn art and the way we teach art through a combination of skill, technique and style… Or ‘steez’!
Style is such a huge part of skateboarding… It takes so long for people from the outside to understand that though.
Yeah… I just skated over here with my son Rafi, it’s about a ten minutes skate from our house and it was the first time we’ve skated together since he went to skate camp and it was so lovely to see how much more assured he is in his own body, just from having done this intensive thing. So, his level of steez has increased so much just because he’s now beyond the initial learning stages. It’s really beautiful to see. It had me thinking this morning that steez maybe isn’t something which just comes, it is also learned… Only it isn’t a technique or a skill it’s almost more of an attitude.
And unlike your ability to say jump down massive sets of stairs, your style is something that sticks with you forever…
Somebody commented on something I stuck on Instagram the other day saying, ‘Why don’t you wear protection because then you could throw yourself about a bit more?’ and I gave some long wordy answer which was basically ‘because I skate to and from everywhere and I am not going to wear pads and a helmet when I am skating from my house to work’, but I realised as I was watching Rafi that all I needed to reply to this bloke on Instagram was: ‘steez!’
Ha ha.
It’s such an important part of it all! Why do it if there isn’t this lovely style about it. Without that, it isn’t the whole experience. And padding up is a bit like treating it as a sport, isn’t it?
What effect has skateboarding  had on you as a woman with children in your forties?
When you’ve got kids, especially when they are little, they need a lot of your care, time and attention. In my experience there is something very freeing once they get past the age of six, where they become more independent in the world.
I’ve had three kids and each time they were two years apart, which was a very intense 10 year period. Your whole body is given over to either being pregnant or feeding followed by again being pregnant and feeding… I knew with my last child Connie (that I had at 39), that I wouldn’t have any more but it still took until she was six to feel free from that.
As a family, we skied a lot and I remember when Connie was six, she learned to be able to get all the way down the mountain. Suddenly she could stay with us, use the chair lifts, etc. So, the family dynamic changed. She was more independent as she could do all of this stuff and I started to feel more free in the world. Also all that was coupled with – because I had children later than some do – being 45 at that stage…
When you have children, it’s not that you are invisible but you are ‘a mother’. That is all you are and people don’t often see beyond this as it’s the main role you are meant to have in society, it seems. So you come out of that, and you are not just ‘a mother’ anymore, but you realise that you are now slightly invisible as a woman. When I was 34, before I got pregnant with Orla, I had a very different relationship as a woman to the world.
And so coming out of the other side of that at 45 I felt very…hmm… yeah invisible. I think it’s that the perception of a woman over 45 is perhaps different to the way you feel about yourself. You feel as though you are being judged as the age rather than the person you are.
Anyway, there is something about skateboarding which changed that for me. And I don’t mean, as this could be misconstrued, that because I started skateboarding it was a kind of a ‘look at me!’ because it was almost the opposite… There is something about the embodied experience of skateboarding, where you can’t think about what you look like in the world because the second you stop concentrating on the actual sensation in your feet or your body you’ll fall off the damn thing! Particularly in the early stages… So it’s a sense of being able to draw back, far away from feeling looked at or judged, into somebody who is experiencing the world in a kind of exhilaration… And it was fantastically freeing!
What about the fact that you started with your kids? That’s not super common… Did you feel like that helped in any way?
I think it made me feel less self-conscious… Or less exposed. I mean, you do all sorts of daft things with your kids you know?
I wasn’t terribly conscious about that all the time but there was something good about the fact that we were all beginners together… It wasn’t just me supporting them, it became mutual. And with Rafi in particular, for all of the early bit at least, we were learning similar things at the same point and sharing ideas. He then sort of edged away in terms of getting better faster but he became this lovely supportive ‘oh, go on mum!’. He was the person who got me to drop in!
That’s amazing…
Yeah, yeah. Lots of tips. So, I think in these ways having my kids with me has been really beneficial.
I loved what you were saying last time about how they are your kids but also kind of your ‘crew’. Like their friends DM you skate clips and stuff.
Yeah, as we were skating here today I was thinking that they absolutely are my crew…
I was talking to
Kyle Beachy
at Pushing Boarders about this longing for skateboarding that he felt as a 12-year-old and how that sort of changed as he hit puberty. I was interested in that as I have a 12-year-old… Rafi today seemed so much stronger than he used to be; it really feels like he has grown. And I just thought that any minute he is going to become this really strong young man and is going to leave me behind… Because I won’t ever get to that strength, but for this bit while he is eleven or twelve we’ve had the same kind of physical strength, almost.
Luckily skateboarding isn’t just about physical strength, you’ll be learning just as much from each other. If we all had the same bodies and strength watching skateboarding would probably get boring real quick…
Yeah. It is really interesting… Someone said to me in Malmö that they think the way I carve around a bowl is very precise whereas with my sons, they just sort of jump in: trial and error, trial and error… Until they get it right. They risk injury so much more because they can bounce whereas I am older and I don’t want to risk injury. That’s why I break everything down to get confident and take these tiny incremental steps towards my goal. That probably in the end gives a certain precision to what you are doing.
It’s a much more technical approach.
Yeah because as an adult learning you think things through, you conceptualise more the things you are trying to do. Sometimes I do try to be more like them though…
And how does that go?
Well I need to be like that! But as an adult I sometimes have to use of alcohol as a prop… Two thirds of a pint is perfect to get me a bit closer to being a twelve year old. More than that and I start…
Getting a bit too young?
Yeah ha ha. But I think adults probably do need something to stop them from overthinking.
Can you tell us a little bit about your experience of taking skateboard lessons?
Yeah so we started by going to
House of Vans skate school
on weekends. Quite often we’d go for two hours on a Saturday and then again for two hours on a Sunday. And we’d also go skating in the afternoons too…
Wow.
Yeah… And I still try to skate everyday because I just have so much catching up to do! Even if it is just twenty minutes.
Anyway so skate school – and Dave Chesson in particular – were instrumental in enabling me to do things like kickturn and learn to drop in. I needed to know how that stuff worked as it was perhaps a little technical… And it was just a lovely thing to go to with the kids! I remember we were in total excitement the first few times just because we came out with Vans wristbands from the session. It’s funny to think about that now…. We photographed those things! It’s just a wristband ha ha. You get one anytime you go there!
So yeah I think a bit of that instruction stuff is good but only because Dave knows when to say ‘right, now go off and do it’. That’s an enormous part of it. It’s your time in the saddle: you need to put the hours in… And I think that’s probably what I’ve done.
Nobody can learn it for you.
No. You are the only one who can do it and the only way to learn it is repetition over time, which I’ve done.
Did you go to any all girl sessions? What are your thoughts on those?
Yeah so shortly after I went to some girls nights at
House of Vans
. The first time I remember it feeling so empowering and wonderful… I have this memory of being on the top of that steep ramp in the street course, plucking up the courage to bring myself to roll down there, looking around and seeing such a supportive community and thinking: I don’t feel visible in the same way – as in awkwardly visible – as I do elsewhere. I thought at the time that it was because I was with a group of women, which somehow made it much more supportive and collegiate… Like I was in a gang and nobody was judging.
That’s how it felt at the time but I also do feel quite differently about this currently… I’m starting to think that maybe it was the fact that there were so many supportive beginners there that was empowering.
As in you think you could have had the same experience if it was a mixed group of beginners?
Yes, that’s what I have come to think now. When you go to skate school at the weekend, it is mixed. It’s mixed in age and it’s mixed in gender; I think that is a really good way of doing things because what links everybody is that they are all learning. I am now much more in favour of things being organised by stage or level.
Obviously it’s nice to sometimes have all levels mixed in together, but if we are going to have specific sessions for specific people I don’t understand why we don’t do that in a mixed gender way.
I know lots of women find it good to be in a single sex environment and as I say I did for the first two times I went but now I think I’m going to stop going to girls night. And it’s not just because they are too busy but it’s that kind of very collegiate, very supportive thing has begun to be just a bit annoying when all you want to do is get on with it. Everybody is around the bowl and it is lovely and so sweet… ‘You go! No, no, you go!’ But now I just want to skate!
Fair enough.
And that is maybe because my level has increased so I can go and hold my own, but it is not about gender! That is about skill on a skateboard. I quite like going to the old man nights at Bay Sixty6 now…
If the aim is to bring the community together, do you think it’s actually detrimental to separate groups of beginners by gender?
Yeah. Nobody does this research but I would love to know how many girls who begin at girls nights carry on and how many of the beginners who start at skate school carry on.
My hunch – just from what I have seen – is that I would say skate school encourages prolonging their skateboarding journey. So yes, I think that it works better as a mixed environment.
Interesting…
On the last night of Pushing Boarders I ended up propping up the bar with Ocean (Howell) for quite a long time… We talked through a lot of that stuff because I’d had another conversation about it with Rick McCrank and…
Just some casual chats with Rick McCrank and Ocean Howell ha ha.
Isn’t it lovely? Ha ha.
Ocean was talking about something that had come up the year before in the
pro-women skateboarders panel
where Elissa Steamer had essentially said ‘if you don’t feel comfortable in the park, then go skate somewhere else until you do’ and controversially, although I didn’t like the way she said it… I do agree with what she said.
I used to come to this skatepark at a very early stage and I have quite a few bits of video of me skating the path next to it as it was just the right gradient for me to learn and get used to carving corners… And when I was a little bit better, I’d go over there and skate that bit of path there which is quite steep.
That bit right there?! That sharp corner looks more dangerous than the actual skatepark ha ha!
I’d definitely land on the grass quite often ha ha. But anyway quite a lot of the time, that was all I needed to get used to standing on the board and pushing.
Also just before I went to Malmö, we did the first skate lessons at
Hackney Bumps
as part of the refurbishment project for the park. We got some money through Hackney Moving Together and Sport England to do them as a way to reach out to the community and get more support for the refurbishment project.
So, the first ones happen and a lot of three and four-year-olds showed up who for the most part had clearly never stepped on a skateboard and that just seemed really surprising to me… That you would take your kid to a lesson when you’ve never actually even got them to try standing on the thing at home!
Yeah that makes no sense.
Yeah! You have all these really basic things which you could learn at home – on a carpet which is safer – with your parent in a one to one situation where someone is holding your hand or your body.
I can obviously understand it if the parents don’t have the resources to get a skateboard. And a lot of these kids did turn up without a board…
Okay, well that makes sense if they couldn’t…
…Yes, but resourcing didn’t seem to be the issue.
Ah so they could have afforded skateboards?
Yes, I think so. We wanted to reach those families who perhaps wouldn’t have the resources to buy skateboards but I don’t think we got there sadly… But we will, it will just take longer.
Anyway, the point being that there is quite a lot of stuff you can do on your own or in other environments before the skatepark. Think about the skatepark as a piece of equipment, as an exercise machine. I know some people see it as a ‘training’ ground.
Sometimes I kind of think of it like that to be honest. And then the ‘real’ stuff is when you go street skating.
Yes. So, given that, the notion that ‘to do skateboarding, I have to go to the skatepark’ is a really strange one. It’s strange to say ‘this is the designated area for skateboarding’ when as we all know, any bit of smooth ground is lovely for it.
This brings me back to my interest in learning and pedagogy and this idea of the ‘expert’ and the ‘ignorant’ other. That whole thing about learning and who takes responsibility for that learning… People think they need an expert in order to learn but so much learning which we do in life we happen to do without an expert. Or the expert happens to be a friend, or your kid. It doesn’t have to be a designated teacher and because of that thought, I don’t think people take enough responsibility for their own learning or learning with their kids. Because they are frightened… Frightened that this is a dangerous thing, so ‘if I do it, something will go wrong’ and their kids will get hurt when actually in a way probably what we should deal with those situations is to teach the parents as well and not just have it all on teaching the kids.
If the parents learned to skate, if they learned what is required then actually they would be able to support their kids better… Somewhere down the line, I would quite like to set up something like that. I think then we would have a whole load of people who could play a really positive, active roles in the skateboarding community.
And it’s just good to get people of all ages involved…
Yeah. Only the trouble is that as soon as you get people interested in skateboarding, they quickly become interested in skateboarding as a whole and it then becomes about their own skateboarding.
Yeah… And?
Well as the skate community gets older, it could easily become seen as an older person sport by young people at some point and we need to make sure that doesn’t happen. We still really need to make sure we encourage kids to do it.
I’ve never really considered that.
It was when I went up to the big skatepark in the north of Malmö that I really felt it. It was 11am and the park was full of men my age and older. And then one woman who was much, much younger but the rest were grown up, quite mature guys with their pads and helmets and stuff and they were sort of confidently proprietorial… There is a confidence which comes with age which could be off putting to young people if they see adults in a sort of supervisory role. Like if they thought they were going to get in trouble for things that were just part of how they’re going to be…
Some of the kids at
Bryggeriet
would sort of double take when I’d prepare to drop in, probably thinking ‘wait, she looks like my mum, or my teacher!’ which I always think is quite funny. And it makes me drop in well!
‘I’ll show you!’
Yeah haha. Anyway because of this I am very conscious that my presence probably changes things for them and if the skate community gets older – as it is happening – they need to still feel it is their place, too.
So, maybe with that in mind we will end up with under sixteens nights with no old folks… We might have to positively discriminate towards young people skateboarding! How mad would that be?
It definitely never crossed my mind…
A few people at the conference had comments about kids smoking dope or drinking and I don’t think we as adults should police young people… Unless it is unkind to someone else, then morally and ethically we need to look after those things but I think people should be free to do what they want in the skatepark. And I worry about younger people losing that…
Somebody was talking to me about a project in Baltimore which has been researched by
Becky Beal
and some others. They did some research into the community which surrounds skateparks and they looked at one in Baltimore and one in another part of the US… The Baltimore one had been policed by parents who became custodians of the skatepark, creating a good and bad behaviour type thing and kept it clean in there… Well I found that really alarming.
For me being around older people drinking or smoking weed at skate spots has been the best way to learn about them… When your parents just forbid you to do certain things it can make you want to do them more, especially if you don’t really understand what these things are.
Yeah, and that is what I said to the person who made that comment in one of the Pushing Boarders sessions afterwards. I would rather my kids – which is what is happening as they are being introduced to people smoking here – know what is going on, know that a joint is being rolled… I would much rather it was in their limited experience of the world than it being totally unknown to them right up until they start to get involved in it. Or, not get involved. Whatever.
And if they come in contact with that whilst I am here that allows us to have some discussions about it. For example, we’d often talk about some of the BMXers here: they are so busy smoking that they never really get to ride. It’s really helpful for me to be able to have that conversation with my kids.
Now that all the Pushing Boarders stuff has sunk in a bit, how could we get more people involved in skateboarding? Or not! Should skateboarding be for everyone?
Interesting… I’ve come back thinking that we all love it so much that we are maybe slightly in danger of becoming a little evangelical in our commitment to skate culture. We’ve all seen and enjoyed that it can be intoxicatingly wonderful when we are all together like that, but we do live in the rest of the world… We have to live with people who don’t do ‘our thing’ and expecting people to enjoy ‘our thing’ is not particularly okay. People like to do all sorts of things… So I’ve come back thinking that I have to remember to keep an open mind and not become completely indulgent. I can become so obsessed with my skateboard, that I don’t want to do anything else. I used to go to films and art galleries and I just don’t really do any of that stuff anymore; if I’ve got any free time, I want to go and skate! But you have to be able to interact with the wider world, otherwise you’ll close yourself off… This week during Pushing Boarders, I felt that if we could just sustain that community forever, then perhaps we wouldn’t need to go back into the real world ha ha. There’s obviously something very positive about skateboarding kind of protecting us from a world which just feels shit and broken at the moment but it can be dangerous…
Do you feel like you learned a lot from the conferences? If so how much of it can be put into practice for real progress?
Loads. That’s my short answer. Absolutely loads. Of course the tricky part is – and this is the same thing which I was trying to talk about in my panel discussion – how do you apply that learning to other situations? That’s the bit where you need to be reflective and analytical about the value of what you’ve learned. Only once you have done that can you apply them to a situation. That’s what I try to do with my academic research: it isn’t valuable in the world if it just stays in my notebook or my university. For it to go anywhere else, it has to be useful for somebody else.
Also the call out which
Amber (Edmondson)
made regarding
Free Movement Skateboarding
and about needing support and help was so powerful! That is an example of a danger in our community which needed support and it wouldn’t have been discussed without a forum such as Pushing Boarders where the community comes together and enables messages like that to get out.
I think all of the discussions about inclusion – who is in the room and who isn’t – that have come out of maybe slightly too many panels are what I want to develop next time… We talked about intersectionality a lot and it was part of an important discussion about bringing more people into skateboarding so that the media around skateboarding reflects this broad community; but I think we need to be more practical about that. We’ve said “this is a problem” but I would like to get into the nitty gritty of how we address that. I’d like to look at that both practically and theoretically.
I agree.
Also there’s this an evangelical zeal sometimes comes with trying to include everybody… We’re always saying that skateboarding ‘does good’ but I think we need to examine closely what ‘good’ we are talking about. Just the broad brush of ‘it’s a good thing’ isn’t nuanced enough because some people won’t ever skate, and therefore, does that mean they are bad? If we are saying skateboarding is good, then if it is not skateboarding is it bad?
It’s a bit simplistic. I think we could do more with this….
Yeah… It almost feels like we’re skipping an important step in the conversation.
Yeah… We’re making assumptions without thinking about what we can do. And of course, we’ve heard from so many projects who are already doing amazing things….
Skate Like A Girl
and its derivatives for example… Or
Skateism
! I feel so pleased to know more about these fantastic things but my research has been about art galleries and the political rhetoric which surrounds the inclusion agenda. Art galleries in the 1850s were built in order to ‘do good’, to ‘cleanse’ the working class, to get them out of the pub, to make them ‘better people’…
So, all of those things I am saying are with quotation marks around because who am I to say what is better? How can I say what is good and what is bad? I was hearing some of the same things at Pushing Boarders… And that’s probably never come up in skateboarding before because there had never been an institution. Now that we have something like Pushing Boarders we are almost creating an institution around our culture. This will of course have loads of positive benefits but we have to be careful that it doesn’t produce the kind of rhetoric around inclusion or other issues that we can see in other institutions, where some assumptions are made about the purpose… And things become a little bit homogenised. I don’t think that it is anyone’s intention with Pushing Boarders but it is something to be aware of.
Totally.
It occurred to me on the plane, coming home – at the next Pushing Boarders (if there is one), we should have skate lessons. There were actually quite a lot of people there who said ‘I don’t skate but I would like to have a go.’ I think lots of these people would be quite pleased to have access to things like Dave Chesson’s skate school. That would have been worth it as a practical way to draw more people in.
…and maybe it could be interesting to talk to these people too?
Yeah. Also I was very surprised… I really wasn’t sure what what my voice was going to contribute to any of this… In fact about four occasions, I decided I wasn’t going to go and thought ‘I need to email Pushing Boarders: I can’t do this.’
I can relate.
Well what a surprise though! Who would have thought that for example a pro skateboarder, who has been entirely engrossed in that community would find what I’m saying useful in some way? It’s like ‘what?!?!’. Because we assume that people who reach a certain level don’t need to know anything else… That must be awful if you are Rick McCrank or Ryan Lay, you know? If a bubble is formed around you by your adoring fans, then how hard must it be to keep engaging? So, now I’ve walked away thinking that actually other voices are really handy… Other voices as in anthropologists and sociologists! But also I don’t just mean academic voices actually – people who work in mental health for example. These people stop our skate community becoming too myopic, inward looking and navel-gazing. They keep broadening it out with these other areas of interest… I think that is really positive and in a way is the role of Pushing Boarders. It is the interdisciplinary, exploration of skateboarding and I don’t think that is happening anywhere else.
Definitely.
Even if you look at the model of academic conferences – of which there are millions – that brings all of the anthropologists and sociologists and educators together. Maybe it might mix those groups up a little but they would all be talking about practice and looking at things that were happening in the world but they’d be talking about them in theory. If you go to an academic conference you’ll hear about loads of papers and some of them might even be about skateboarding but they would be describing this or that and the significance of it. Pushing Boarders actually brought together the practitioners with the thinkers and in some cases, they are one and the same! It meant that we didn’t become overly theoretical about the conversations. They were always rooted in practice and in the doing. And again, this is something very, very special because most academics at a conference would absolutely die to have that access to practitioners!
In fact a guy who doesn’t skate anymore was talking to me at the end and he was an anthropologist. He was saying that he had gotten loads out of it because normally he wouldn’t have access to all that wonderful thinking and also have the value of people’s experiences. So god, who knew that what we do here could have such profound value for so many people!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 18, 2021
Remembering Ignacio Echeverría
Tim Crawley made this poignant documentary about Ignacio Echeverría, the skateboarder who perished whilst bravely helping others in the London Bridge terror attacks of June 2017. Below is the little piece about Ignacio written by his good friend Juan ‘Jura’ Algora that we ran in our July/August 2017 issue (issue 13).
Ignacio Echeverría         May 25, 1978 – June 3, 2017
Ignacio Echeverría, or Abo, which all of his friends called him due to his lawyer skills, (abogado means lawyer in Spanish) was the nicest and most down to earth person I have ever met. He was the type of human that wouldn’t even kill an insect after being bit by it.
A local of Jardinillos, you could see him skating hard and having the best time at the plaza, where I had the pleasure of meeting him.
Despite being the oldest of the squad, he would enjoy every session more than anyone. He was a special person, a young kid but way older than all of us.
Abo would pick the homies up and drive them to the skateparks in the suburbs of Madrid. For me it was really sick because those were my beginnings and I felt like we were on skate missions. He would play Delinquent Habits and he never let us eat our snacks or pastries in his car.
Abo never followed any trend; he always did his thing. He was just a hard worker.
We all grew up a bit more and Jardinillos got knobbed. The scene there slowly disappeared and everyone took a different path. Some of the homies stopped skating just like in every plaza. Abo wasn’t one of them. After years studying hard he got a serious job in downtown Madrid.
Ignacio. Ph. Hugo Moreno Pascual
By that time I became a local of Plaza de Colon and I remember seeing him walking by, wearing a suit. ‘I’m on my lunch break, so I came to see people skating real quick before I get back to work.’
No matter how many years passed, he was still there, impossibles on lock and always happy to share a session with his friends.
He ended up moving to London a few years ago for work. I could still see him posting clips on social media. I could imagine him coming back from work, taking the suit off, putting on some comfortable clothes and going out to do what he loved the most.
Somebody recently asked if I was surprised that he got involved in defending that person on the bridge that day. So I told that person something that happened to him in a skatepark years ago: some bad ass kids were spitting at and harassing a young girl, Abo didn’t think twice and went to defend this girl. The next thing that happened was that two cars pulled up in the skatepark full of rats and Abo got jumped and sent to the hospital. That says a lot about him. A noble person who was making this world a better place. So I’m 100% sure that he would do it again and again.
Sometimes we don’t know how to react to an extreme situation, and I am sure that most of us would run away, but Ignacio didn’t. He jumped off his bike and used his board to help save a life.
He never pretended to be a hero; he was just doing the right thing. This tragedy is probably going to change the way people look at us (skateboarders), at least for a bit of time.
Thanks Ignacio, for all the years you spent with us, for being real, pure and brave.
Skate in Heaven.
—Juan ‘Jura’ Algora

================================================================================

BY admin  •  May 20, 2015
Eleventh Hour (full video)
If you’ve come to hear Jake retell the tales of his award winning indy vid then I’m afraid you’ve come to the wrong place. It’s not that we aren’t honoured to be hosting Eleventh Hour in its entirety; it’s just that it’s been a hot topic of conversation for almost two years now. Plus Jake has moved on to even more exciting things, notably the production of Isle Skateboards’ first ever full-length: Vase.
Yep, times may be changing but we still believe videos like these are defining moments in a brand’s history. No amount of Instagram posts will ever cement a brand’s credibility like Fully Flared did for Lakai or cherry recently did for Supreme. And I certainly can’t see a stand-alone Thrasher part ever strengthening a brand’s aesthetic in the way Mosaic did for Habitat. So here’s how Jake (with all this in mind I’m sure) approached this blank canvas.                        -Arthur Derrien
Towards the end of
Eleventh Hour
I remember you saying it was the last time you were going to make a full-length skate video. What made you change your mind? Did you get “tricked” into starting on a new one by your friends or was it a conscious decision?
Well I set about doing Eleventh Hour (originally the Grey video) as a way of putting a full stop on skateboard videos for me, in a way that I could be proud of and felt represented the things I liked. First off I didn’t expect such a positive reaction from 11th Hour, so I think a large part of starting on a new project came from the energy and flattery of being reassured that people actually want to see the stuff I make.
If I was tricked into this it was only by myself. You definitely forget the pains of child-birth when you become excited by an idea. I have to say that I don’t really enjoy filming skateboarding that much, but I enjoy filming my friends and the situations working on a longish project can put you in. People on Isle are the people I’d naturally want to film anyway and I back the company hard, so it was the obvious vessel for the energy I had at the time it started.
Do you think this one will be the last one?
All signs point to yes.
So what do you think the next part of your life is going to consist of?
Hopefully moving into shooting narrative fiction.
How was filming and editing this video different to working on an independent project like
Eleventh Hour
? Was it harder to stay true to your vision?
Sorry I wish I could answer this more fully but I haven’t edited it yet! Me and Nick have a strong working relationship and understand one another quite well when it comes to giving the video its direction. There’ve been no disagreements yet and I would always defer to his vision for the brand ahead of my own aesthetic ideas if we were to end up disagreeing on anything.
Are you ever worried that that vision might be too personal?
I think there’s always a tension between maintaining a broad appeal and taking your ideas too far. At the beginning of this video me and Nick definitely came up with ideas and an aesthetic that I feel might not have had their proper place in a skateboard video. By this I don’t mean that it would go over anybody’s heads or that it would be too complex, you just have to sometimes ask yourself the question ‘who am I actually making this for?’ That said it’s definitely a good time in skateboarding to want to express something less obvious than just tricks.
Who came up with the name
Vase
? What’s the idea behind it?
It materialised somewhere between mine and Nick’s collective brain.
Just this – ‘The vase is often decorated and thus used to extend the beauty of its contents.’
Did any of the riders have more input than others? If so who, what kind of input and was it always welcomed?
We all talk, people suggest music and of course have control over the way in which they skate. Other than that, we all share a similar point of view about a lot of things so I think a lot of chatter trickles its into mine and Nick’s ideas. It’s always welcomed though, if not acted on.
What’s the hardest part of working on a project of this scale with your friends?
Tensions can obviously arise when you’re working in a way without clearly defined roles; nobody owes anything to anybody and you can rub yourself up the wrong way if you take peoples’ varying levels of commitment too personally. But actually it’s mostly just good.
Can you tell us a little bit about the filming trips you went on for this video? Does the team work well as a group when you are on filming missions?
I think most of the skaters in the video don’t work that well on trips. The time period of a week or so can put a lot of pressure on when you want to film things of a certain standard or uniqueness, or just clips that transmit some less definable energy. What draws me to these skaters is that they don’t want to just be filmed skating, they’re trying to capture something distinct. This can take time and is often a lot easier to come by in your own city when your mind has the freedom to wander a bit more minus the pressure of justifying the price of a plane ticket.
Was picking destinations like Barcelona or LA done to stray away from the crusty/grey London aesthetic people might be expecting?
Partly, this isn’t supposed to be a London video though obviously the majority of it has been filmed in London. But really trips are often planned on a practical basis; Barcelona is an easy place to skate in January and you don’t need a van. As for LA we just wanted to go out and all be together and visit Shier and be in America for a bit. I feel now that within skateboarding it’s good not to be too controlling over the way you want things to appear – treading the old line between authenticity and artifice. It feels to me that people who take an idea too seriously often end up creating something a bit 2 dimensional or polemical, which of course have their places too.
Has your new life as a “sponsored” skateboarder (Huf/Slam City Skates) interfered with your work on the video?
No I land my tricks pretty much first go so it doesn’t take up much time.
Can you tell us about Jon Nguyen’s drunken callout incident on the last day of the trip in LA?
Haha I wouldn’t go as far as to call it an incident. We don’t see Jon that much because he’s in SF, but in LA we all got steaming on the last night and he told us we’re all really dry. I couldn’t agree more, we might be the driest, most neurotic crew in skateboarding. We all try hard on trips and go to sleep early and do our homework. Except for Casper who’s an absolute animal and life of any party or streetbeer or bong of course.
Do you think Tom Knox’s
Vase
part is his best part so far? Will he have last part?
It definitely shows a grown-up Tom skating, I don’t have too much critical distance but I think it’s his best part by a country mile. He might have last part I haven’t made any decision like that yet, I can switch it all around 10 minutes before the premiere so it might depend how I feel on the night.
Who else has full parts in the video?
I’m not sure, everybody I think.
How are you guys planning on releasing it? Do you think you will be making any money on it?
There will be physical copies. I really have no idea about money though
If you could have filmed a part with a non-Isle rider for the video who would it have been?
Daniel Clarke. Especially now he skates with a Sondico shin-pad on.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  November 21, 2022
The Sky Ain’t Falling – adidas in London, Paris and Biarritz
Video by Torsten Frank
Photos by Alex Pires (unless stated)
Words by Arthur Derrien
Niels Bennett, pop shove-it, Paris.
Supposedly getting shat on by a pigeon brings good luck. This superstition is one I found myself wholeheartedly believing on our first dry, sunny day in Biarritz as I meandered down the winding paths that lead you from the Radisson Blu to the Côte Des Basques, surfers dotting its glistening waves in the distance. After two days of rain, it looked like we were finally going to swim. Ironically the person our cheeky feathered friend chose to cover in runny excrement was Tom Snape, who happened to be wearing the only jumper he owned (after a luggage mishap a month earlier that lost the majority of his belongings). It could have picked anyone from our crew, but it chose the man living out of a backpack with the storage capacity of a happy meal. In any other context it would have sucked, and I can think of 50 people that would have subjected the whole world to all kinds of whining if it had happened to them, but right then and there, on an all expenses paid trip solely for the purpose of doing tricks on skateboards, and in the early, giggly stages of our hangovers, a long stretch of golden sand growing closer in the distance, it could be nothing but hilarious.
Shin Sanbongi, McGrath stall, Biarritz.
What I found out minutes later though is that I was wrong – about the good luck. As me and Snape scrambled up from the beach to the glowing terrace of the restaurant where the rest of the adidas crew was waiting for us, piles of delicious-looking grilled chipirons at the ready, we were greeted by Al Boglio – our TM for the trip – asking us if we knew the meaning of the purple flags flailing on the shore. ‘That means the water’s full of shit mate. They put them up after it rains a lot because it drags in all the polluted water from the sewage.’ Not entirely sure if he was being serious or not at this point, we chose to laugh it off. ‘Fuck it, it was worth it’ we both tell ourselves, basking in the sun, our first delicious cervezas of the day in hand. But then, just as the jokes about our dicks falling off and other likely consequences of our first dip started dying out, Snape, still barefoot at this point, walks on a wasp. Good luck you say? It’s the first time I’ve seen him without shoes on this trip and he gets stung bang in the middle of the arch of his foot by a bloody wasp. This, the day he’s expected to skate in front of 500 kids for the team’s first big demo lol. And the final nail in the coffin? ‘
Messieurs dames la baignade est formellement interdite pour raison d’eau polluée, veuillez sortir de l’eau immédiatement…
’ Some megaphone starts blasting in French that whoever is still in the water now needs to get out immediately because it’s not safe in there, as the water is, indeed, polluted.
Gustav Tønnesen, wallie kickflip, London
Anyway, why does any of this matter? Because actually, it didn’t. Not in the slightest. Neither Snape, nor anyone else could have let anything get in the way of what we were doing here. It’s like everyone was so humbled by the idea of being able to enjoy this gorgeous town in the South of France, and being treated like royalty simply because they could kickflip kinda good, that the positivity levels were through the roof the entire time. In the past, I’ve observed the artist/unicorn/urban gigolo formerly known as Heitor Da Silva and wondered how he could possibly live such a seemingly carefree life… Constantly smiling and having a laugh, never stressed about timekeeping or any of the other boring constraints of modern society.
Heitor Da Silva, hardflip, Biarritz
Well on this trip I finally got it. Being a pro skater is just really fucking great. ‘No shit’ you might think, and I wouldn’t blame you, but I personally had never before truly grasped the extent of the above statement.
For starters, you’re surrounded by other pro skaters. Sounds extremely neeky but when you look at the line-up of this trip you can see why it has its importance. And I’m not just saying that because it’s my job to be excited about skating: Lucas was fanning out on Gustav’s super powers just as much as I was, calling him ‘the genius’ at every opportunity, and laughing at this self-conjured image of him standing up straight, silently staring at a spot, blinking away as he’d internally break down the different steps of his next fucked up move without even having to touch his board. Same goes for Shin. I saw the way everyone on the trip would look at him when he’d step on his board… It’s because he’d treat a straight line like he’s being shot out of a cannon through the snake run at Kona. And you can be Tony Hawk, Todd Falcon or Ben Gilley’s mum, it doesn’t matter, you’re going to want to feel what he feels. He’s that special. You can’t be around that and not dream of going fast as you possibly can, throwing tight carves even when there’s nothing to carve, and popping split-second backside noseblunts out of any quarterpipe that’ll dare show its face.
Shin Sanbongi, gap to 50-50, London.
The other thing is that unless you’re an absolute twat, which I can safely say none of these guys are, then you’re well aware of the impact you, as a pro skater, can have on skateboarders half your age. They all know this because just like you and me, they were once that kid in awe at the Biarritz demo. Or, as I explained in the previous paragraph: because they basically still are that kid. The look on that little man’s face was particularly magical because it was the board Lucas literally just switch front 360 heeled over that skatepark bump to bar, and that it was handed to him as its wheels were still spinning, but we all know that moment is going to stay with this kid looooong after those abecs reach a halt.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by LucasPuig (@lucaspuig)
Biarritz, Paris and London all had skate shop visits booked in where the idea was for each rider to set up a complete (that adidas would pay for full price to support these SOSs), that they would then give out to kids at the demos. It was an incredibly long process (as is anything when you’re in a large group like this) that took away from street skating, which for me coming into this, was the only thing that really mattered. But what I mentioned above and the Video Radio levels of passion I witnessed at the first signing completely changed my perspective on this… Like on the last night in Biarritz for instance there was a bit of a party to celebrate Lucas’ 10 years of three striped pro models, which loads of the younger skaters from around there came to, and the first thing they did when they got their hands on the music was blast the ‘Zinedine Zidaaaaane’ song as loud at they could, pick up Mr Puig, and start bouncing in him above their heads.
It was so fucking heart-warming I can’t even explain. And you could tell he was their Zidane not just because he did some fucked up shit in
Fully Flared
or
Bon Appéti
t, but because they’d met him, and the interactions they’d had with him had been inspiring. And obviously he was hammered but you could tell he was genuinely moved by that. You could tell it felt amazing to know that his success was (quite literally) uplifting.
The other – again rather obvious – observation I found myself making during these 10 days of living like a pro skater, which kind of feeds into everything I was saying earlier, is how many more weird interactions you get subjected to just from being out and about so much. Given that I’m generally sat behind a computer from 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday, I’d say my outdoor time was probably up by about 300% on the trip, which probably played a part in how stunned I was by some of these aforementioned bizarre encounters, when everyone else seemingly barely noticed them. For instance, if somebody walks up to Gustav Tønnesen (a man known both for his reserved demeanour and dedication to making skateboarding look as good as it possibly can on VX), and tries to convince him to strap a GoPro to his head so he can self-film his next few mini-ramp runs, whilst being surrounded by dozens of long-coated influencers, all with phones out ready for some action, a Jake Snelling off his nut repeatedly crashing into the ceiling in the background, I’m going to take a second to appreciate the fact that okay, this situation is absolutely ridiculous. But nobody, including Gus, seemed that fazed by it. It’s like to them it was all just another day at the office. Same goes with unlikely situations of the more stressful kind, like when for instance we were skating this brick bank in Bethnal Green, and a charming young man who happened to be chilling in his car a few metres away from the spot told me that if we didn’t stop he’d punch my head in and run Torsten Frank over (for leaning against it). I tried to keep my calm in order to not tamper with the good vibes of the session, as these are obviously conducive to stackage… But I doubt I was fooling anyone; I was clearly a bit shook. But predictably, when I finally explained to our delegation what had just happened, and that it had felt a bit sketchy to say the least, the general consensus was essentially, ‘meh, what was he gonna do, really?’ Which brings me back to where we started, kind of…
On one of the last days of the trip I bumped into Jarrad Carlin who told me he was convinced Snape was one of the few people on this planet who might have actual ‘bad luck’. I thought back to the
stories of him
getting left misdiagnosed for a broken arm, and then a burst appendix, turning pro and 30 with COVID, getting stabbed in the arm on a night out… And then of what I mentioned in the opening paragraph, or, how later on in the trip Torsten missed his switch heel out of that mini-kicker (which he did perfect in like five goes), and how he ended up retrying it for hours, getting a board to the face, cutting up his lip (blood everywhere, etc.), then trying some more until he snapped his board on the one he should have properly rolled away from. But even with all that in mind, this idea of him having ‘bad luck’ just wouldn’t stick.
Tom Snape, switch heelflip, Paris.
At risk of glorifying these guys and the lifestyle I’ve been attempting to describe even more, I’m going to go out and say that I think that it’s probably because Snape, and the rest of this lot were probably in a way made for this job. Or maybe it’s that this ‘job’ kinda made them? Either way, what I’m trying to say here is that Snape is travelling the world with Busenitz because he skates like the spiritual son of
Mouse
-era Mariano and Radlands-era Tom Penny, sure, but there’s more to it than that.
If he’d stayed in NZ his whole life that wouldn’t have mattered… Or if he’d gone home and given up after any of these fucked up things that happened to him in Barca… There’s a lot of shit that feeds into the mystique around all these skaters we grow up looking up to outside of their ability to land tricks, and this constant seizing of opportunities rather than dwelling on the distractions, and this ability to inspire others to seize their own opportunities is definitely a huge part of it. Or as famous actor and magician Channing Pollock once put it: ‘The only good luck many great men ever had was being born with the ability and determination to overcome bad luck.’ And that’s coming from a man who could produce doves out of thin air, so you know he knew a thing or two about getting shat on by birds.
Scroll through more of Alex Pires’ photos from the trip in the gallery below:
View Gallery | 23 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  August 12, 2019
Volunteering at skate aid organisations with Amber Edmondson
You’ve probably heard of skate aid organizations like
SkatePal
,
Make Life Skate Life
, and
Free Movement Skateboarding
, but have you ever seriously considered applying to volunteer with one of them? Have you thought about the details of living in Palestine, Iraqi Kurdistan, or Athens for a month? Maybe you like the idea, but you’re worried about getting the time off work, or not being a good enough skater, or not knowing enough about the country in which you might like to volunteer. Maybe you’re worried about safety. Perhaps you’d just like to chat with someone who has done it before and can answer all your questions.
Two and a half years ago Amber Edmondson was just like you. She was working a marketing job in Manchester and feeling the old professional ennui with which so many adults are familiar. She had recently gotten back into skating after a 14-year hiatus and happened, by chance, to attend a SkatePal fundraiser at a local bar. Mere months later, she had quit her job and been accepted to volunteer in Asira Ash-Shamaliya, Palestine, for eight weeks. Since then, she has volunteered at the Suli Skatepark in Iraqi Kurdistan, moved to Athens to work full-time for Free Movement Skateboarding, returned to Asira for a month, and co-founded the non-profit Women Skate the World.
I met Amber in Asira in March. As I heard more and more about her experiences with skate aid organizations, the same questions kept popping up in my mind: How did she take that leap of faith? How did she abandon security in order to pursue more meaningful work? How did she overcome all the doubts that must have been plaguing her? Her answer was always the same: “I just went for it. If I can do it, anyone can.”
Interview by Max Harrison-Caldwell
Tell me about yourself and how you got involved in skate aid work.
I’m Amber, I’m 29, I get sunburned really easily, and I can’t eat onions (laughs). I got involved in skate aid work originally through volunteering with Skate Pal. I’d started going to girls’ night in Manchester at Project Skatepark. It was the first time I’d gotten on a skateboard in 14 years and it felt fucking amazing. The skateboarding was amazing, but it was having this space to fail and it not matter.
I think that’s first what really got me thinking about what skateboarding is capable of, more than just as an act in itself. Then a mate said to me, “Hey, wanna come to this thing on Thursday? It’s a thing for SkatePal.” We watched
Epicly Palestine’d
and the screen was really high above us at the bar and we were all looking at it with crooked necks and I remember just watching this thing and being like, I have to go there. I applied and I remember vividly, thinking, there’s no way Charlie (Davis, SkatePal founder and executive director) is gonna accept me, I’m not a good enough skateboarder. I can drop in and I can ollie but I can’t really do anything else. And he said yeah, I’ll put you down for April and May. So it was decided that I was gonna quit my job and go and do that. And that was the beginning of everything.
What’s Women Skate the World?
Women Skate the World
is on a mission to promote inclusive skateboarding, and that’s through encouraging female volunteers and encouraging women to skate.
Nanja (Women Skate the World co-founder) is a woman that I met when she was my roommate at Skate Pal last year. We were talking about applying for Skate Pal and how stoked we were to be here (in Palestine) and how we felt like we’d sort of been given a chance, because we weren’t good skaters. Charlie had said, “Yeah we really struggle to get women out here.” Talking to other women who had done SkatePal or were thinking about it, it became clear that we all thought we weren’t good enough and we weren’t needed. And that’s not on SkatePal, that’s on all of skating and our own bullshit fears and everything. It’s impostor syndrome, you know? But it became obvious that we’d both been thinking that and we both had concerns about safety. Like, Charlie and Theo (Krish, SkatePal co-director) are diamond guys and they’d said it’s safe, but is it safe for women? Is it safe to walk around at night? It just became clear that it would be really cool to have advice from other women who had been here, and if that was the case here, it was probably the case at other projects.
From being here, it is safe, I am good enough, and I’m a good teacher — you don’t need to be an amazing skateboarder to help these kids. I help
Sedra
with stuff I can’t do all the time. She finds it hilarious. Her favorite thing to do after I’ve been helping her with something for ages is to say, “Now you.” She knows I can’t do it. Or she’ll remind me of times I’ve tried to do it and fallen, which is quite often. So yeah, it’s a myth that you’re not good enough to be here. If you feel comfortable on a board — you probably don’t even need to be able to drop in — you can make a big difference here.
The other thing we learned from being here is that just being in the park can make a difference. When we arrived in April, the two women that were supposed to be here in March had dropped out last minute so there hadn’t been any girls in the park. And when we started going to the park, more girls would come, or they would be playing on the play park (playground) next to it and they would come and have a go. There was a bit of overlap with the (March) volunteers and they were saying, “We didn’t get this many girls coming when you guys weren’t here.” Even in the street when we would be walking in the village and the men are shaking the men’s hands, we’d go and talk to the women and they’d be shaking our hands and the male volunteers who had been here were actually saying, “Whoa, I’ve never seen that.” Because the women feel like they can’t talk to them or don’t feel comfortable talking to them.
(Having women in the park) makes it a space that’s not just for men. It gives girls who want to have a go on a skateboard a woman to look at who is on a skateboard so they can think, “I could do that.” I think some of the older girls aren’t comfortable taking hands from guys (holding hands when learning to drop in, etc.) so I think it keeps that door open for them just a little bit longer. And I think it just makes it a less intimidating place.
How did you decide to volunteer at the
Suli Skatepark
in Iraqi Kurdistan?
Once I was in Palestine, it just seemed obvious to me that this was what I wanted to be doing, so I decided to see if I could push my savings a little more. I reached out to Make Life Skate Life, who were building the park in Slemani (Kurdistan) while I was in Palestine. I wanted to be part of it but didn’t know if I was good enough. What can I offer? These guys really know what they’re doing — they really know aid work and they really know skateboarding. And I kind of don’t know much about either. But when I applied for Kurdistan I was told there would be other volunteers and accomodation and a volunteer coordinator. And the day before I flew from Tel Aviv I was told that actually none of that was going to be in place, and that they apologised and understood if I didn’t want to go. And, as you know, I went. So being there on my own and running a park four hours a day, every day, for a month… I don’t want to say that because I did that I can do anything, but it was a scary decision to make and it built my confidence to think, maybe I can do this.
It also made me realise that the people that were my heroes… When we had the first Skype with Make Life Skate Life, they really wanted Women Skate the World to go and do a women’s program, and Nanja and I were sitting next to each other, sort of hitting each other’s legs, because they wanted us and we were like, “Oh my god!” It was exciting because they had so many projects around the world and, other than Skateistan (who don’t take any volunteers anymore), these were the guys. These were the people I wanted to be like, that were doing so much good. And when I got there, it wasn’t the case.
They’d built a park, but it had been left in an unsafe condition. The park is slightly downhill and it culminates in a big quarterpipe and just behind that is the shipping container with all the boards and stuff. That’s where the boards are, so that’s where the kids congregate. So you have this quarterpipe that’s at the bottom of this small hill and you have skateboards just flying at the spot where the kids line up. While I was there, we had a few people get hit in the back and the shoulders. Luckily nobody got hit in the head but it’s only a matter of time. That’s just down to luck and the height of the people that got hit. The other thing was that there was very loose soil around the park and the metal reinforcements stuck out of the cement into it. Of course the skateboards go off into the dirt and the dirt’s loose and the kids go to retrieve the boards and they’re stepping between these metal supports and it’s just glaringly obvious that it’s unsafe. It just didn’t make sense.
Did they not have time to finish the park? Why were there still exposed iron rods?
I spoke to Arne (Hillerns, Make Life Skate Life founder) about it and he said, “Hey, we had a month. Would you rather I built this park and said no, you can’t actually skate on it?” And I was like, if you can build a skatepark in a month, how long is it gonna take you to build a fence so that flying boards won’t hit kids? If you’ve got a visa for 30 days, build a park that you know you can get done in three weeks. Standard planning — you have a contingency.
If they decided that that was finished and it was a good enough job, shame on them. If they tried to finish and couldn’t, plan better. This was not their first skatepark. Don’t cram in half a park or a park that’s skateable but isn’t necessarily safe so that you can say, “We’ve built this many parks around the world.”
I said look, it’s not safe here [at the skatepark], I’ve had to find my own accommodation. I take responsibility for the fact that I made the decision to go there, but when I said, “It’s important that you take care of your volunteers,” they said, “Well, the visas are only for a month. We thought that you understood.”
Can you tell me about the responsibility of skate aid organisations beyond just building a park?
I don’t think it’s about after the skatepark’s built; I think the responsibility begins before that. I think they have a responsibility to understand the community, discuss with the community, find out if it’s right for them, if it’s something that they want. I also think that the skatepark build, if it is decided that it should go ahead, should be about teaching, not about skating necessarily, especially if you’re building it somewhere that doesn’t have a skate scene or access to skateboards. Don’t build it for skilled skaters, build it for people learning and have a space where you can learn to push and a mellow bank where you can learn to kickturn and that kind of stuff. Have a little quarterpipe and then a slightly bigger thing that you can drop in on. And think about whether it’s going downhill or not, think about the flow of the park.
I’m really keen to get involved in skatepark builds, not as a builder or a designer but as a teacher. You might be an amazing skater and designer and builder but I’ve taught to so many different kids in so many different spaces and I’ve learned what works, what kids need. I can see, when there’s a kid at a certain level, what they need. And that’s something that’s not always at the forefront of your mind if you’re an amazing skater. It’s hard for me to remember what I didn’t know before I came to Palestine. Sometimes when I’m teaching, I skate switch so I can feel what it’s like to not be comfortable on the board, and that sort of keeps you grounded. It’s difficult to remember what it’s like to not know how to skate.
Another thing is that a skatepark should be built as a community space, it should not just be built for skaters. It should have a play park. That is one of the best things about the park in Asira, is that there’s a play park and that brings whole families and that brings women who bring their kids. It means that (the skatepark) isn’t this other, foreign, isolated thing that’s masculine and for these white people… Even if they’re not interested, they’re seeing it, and it’s not something where rumors start. It becomes a lot more accessible and a lot more visible to the community. And it’s not selfish — you wanna build a skatepark because you like skateboarding but also, kids like playing, so build a play park. And even for those teenage skaters, how much easier is it to pester your mum to drive you to the skatepark if she can also get rid of your little brother and sister for half an hour on the swings? Don’t be selfish with this shit (laughs).
I don’t think that anyone should be building anything unless they’re willing to either commit six months themselves or they have an agreement with a partner organisation that is going to stay and do skate programming for six months.
Skate programming meaning offering classes and providing equipment?
Yeah, making it sustainable. Making sure the people who you’ve built this park for have fucking skateboards, firstly. And maybe you’ve got some local skaters who can reach out to you and say, “Hey we need more skateboards,” or, “Part of what you built is falling apart and you’ve got to come sort this out,” or, “This isn’t really safe,” or even, “We didn’t expect the space to be used that way but what’s become really clear is that actually kids love climbing up this big quarterpipe and on the other side of it is a big drop, so we could really use a fence there.” As skaters should know, spaces are always gonna be used in ways you don’t expect, so building it and fucking off is not good enough. I do think that it should be sustainable. I don’t think that it should always rely on foreign support, but if you build a skatepark somewhere the quickest you can have it up, running, and hand it over to locals to continue that work is six months. And six months is fucking unlikely.
What’s Free Movement, and what’s your role there?
Free Movement Skateboarding is a youth organisation that uses skateboarding to engage young people in refugee communities and the local Athenian community. We have a few different things that we do: we do sessions in refugee camps that are closed off to the public, we do sessions in public places where we’ll try to get that integration going, and we have a little private space called Souzy Tros which is in an industrial space near one of the refugee camps and has a little DIY skatepark in it. That allows us to do a lot more developmental stuff. We have maybe ten kids there and we see them every week so we get more one-on-one with them, not just about skateboarding but about their behavior and coping strategies and trying to encourage them to talk about how they feel and listening to them.
I run Free Movement with three other people and Will [Ascott], who’s
taking a break
at the moment, and I run their volunteer program and their women’s program. But we all just do whatever we can [laughs]. I used to work in marketing and do projects and deadlines and shit so I make sure everybody’s talking to each other and we’ve got funding streams and we’re saying the right things to our funders and we’ve got an online presence. Just a lot of the organizational stuff, mainly. And then we’ve got Zelia who does the educational stuff because she’s a phenomenal teacher. It’s like watching a magician. I’ve never seen anybody command kids’ attention in such an amazing way.
Does Free Movement offer classes other than the skate lessons?
Yeah, we have a women’s program once a week on Fridays. It’s an hour of some kind of lesson or activity. We always try to have some sort of learning element, so even if we’re doing art, what we’re doing is some kind of recycling thing. So what we’re doing is making use of the relationship we have with these girls. We’re not these volunteers they have in the camp that are there for two or three weeks at a time and then go. We’re consistent, we kind of tell them off and there’s discipline but we’re also doing this cool thing with them so there’s a bit more of a friendship than a straight up maths teacher thing.
And also, skateboarding is fucking scary — we’re the ones that are encouraging them and holding their hands and catching them when they fall and wiping their bloody knees if they get scrapes and what have you. That builds a level of trust so naturally that then allows us to talk to them about other scary things. Being a teenage girl is scary, let alone being a teenage refugee. Getting your period, finding out that at some point blood is gonna start coming out of you once a month, what the fuck!? That terrified me for ages! Trying to have a conversation with them where we say, “Hey, you know with these men in the camp that come up to you and kiss you on the cheek because they know your dad and you hate it, you can say no, you know?” But still, that’s fucking scary. I hate it when men come and assume they can kiss me on the face, and I’m fucking 29.
We try to talk to them about body boundaries and healthy relationships and adolescence and gender equality and discrimination and respect and diversity and things that are coming up for them. As people who are living in refugee camps, as girls and as women. I’m not the fucking oracle, I don’t have all the answers, I’m not pretending to be, but I am trying to create a space where we can discuss what they think about the fascists that they’ve heard a lot about that they’re scared of, and what that word means. A lot of times they know to be scared of something but don’t know what it means. It came up with Atena and
the rape thing
. That floored us. We were not ready for that. We just try to create a space where they can talk about race and religion and things where other people might say, “Don’t bring it up because you’ll start an argument or you’ll say something wrong.” If they can talk about it and ask questions I think they’ll be better off for it.
Do you think they’re more into these lessons and discussions because you have this big-sister-type relationship from teaching them skating?
Yeah, for sure. I think that this comes down to trust. When it comes to that, “Sana, I need you to sit down and do this, and then we’re gonna skateboard,” they are more likely to listen to you. There are other things like, you tell them stuff on a skateboard like, “Listen, I know you’re scared. You need to lean forward.” They fall off. “It’s because you didn’t lean forward. Your body needs to be forward.” And then they do it, and they don’t fall, and then they remember that you were fucking right (laughs). So then when you say, “I know you don’t want to do this, but let’s just do this,” you get more of a, “Yeah, alright,” because you were right that one time with the skateboarding thing.
Maybe I’m being naive but I do think that they respect us, and maybe it’s just because we’ve been hanging around long enough (we’ve been with them for a year and a half) but they tend to listen to us. Sometimes when the kids are bad they’re not allowed to come skateboarding and the people at the camp will ask us to have a word with them about the way they treat the camp volunteers, because, as they say, “They respect you more than they respect us.” And I do think that part of that is consistency, but part of it is trust.
It seems like many people in the West have stopped paying attention to the refugee crisis now that it’s no longer in the news all the time. Can you update us? What countries do the refugees you work with come from? What are the conditions in the camps in Athens?
There are currently an estimated 65,000 refugees in Greece. We teach kids from all over the place. Off the top of my head, and I’m definitely gonna forget somewhere, we have kids from Afghanistan, Syria, Iran, Palestine, Egypt, Eritrea, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iraq… all over. Most of the world, seriously. The conditions vary. The camps that are good have containers, kind of like a shipping container, and it has a kind of living room with a bit of a kitchen and a bedroom. And it’s got heaters and air conditioning and running water and a bathroom. One of the main camps we work in has a rule: if you’re four people or less, you share with another family, and if you’re five or more you get your own container. The kids are in school and have activities, skateboarding is one of those activities, it’s in the center of Athens. Great.
Some of the other camps that we work in are an hour outside of Athens, not near any public transportation, not easily accessible. The kids aren’t in school and don’t have many activities — we’re one of the only children’s activities there. There are other camps that have no childcare, no safeguarding. A Safe Zone is an area inside a refugee camp for unaccompanied minors. So if you imagine a refugee camp, it’s got barbed wire and all the security, and then it has an extra level of security inside for unaccompanied minors. And there are camps where the unaccompanied minors are in amongst everybody else and are just completely vulnerable to any of the adults that are in that camp.
All the camps in Athens have running water but not in the islands. On Lesbos, one of the camps (Moria) has a capacity of 3100 so that it is safe. If there are 3100 people or fewer everyone has safe and healthy access to running water and food. That camp currently has over 5000 people in it, and
it had 9000
at the end of last year before
the government moved 4000 people to the mainland
. It’s fucking horrific. That’s not what we do. We’re on the development side. There are a lot of steps when it comes to aid work with refugees. One of them is pulling people out of the water, and another is getting them to dry land, and another is getting them to some kind of shelter, and another is getting them any medication they need, and another is making sure that they get food, and way way way down the line is what we do, which is trying to get these kids into something consistent, and some kind of developmental routine. But it relies on somebody pulling people out of the water and all those people working down that line.
Have you ever been accused of being a white saviour? How does your own identity as a white Western person factor into what you do? Any specific situations where you’ve really had to interrogate your own privilege or your motivations for doing aid work?
No, I’ve not been accused of that to my face. Is it something I think about? Yes. Is it something I think I should be aware of? Yes. I think about that shit all the time. I think the reason I’m doing (aid work) is because I can’t not do anything.
I think one of the main things that I try to do is just listen. One, I’m not gonna go do something that I don’t believe in and don’t know about. I know about skateboarding and I know about teaching so I’m gonna always do something around teaching. The main thing that I try to do is just be there for these girls on a human level and listen to what they’re saying, and that means listening to stuff that is really hard to hear and listening to their stories about their journeys.
If you told me about a problem you were having, my reaction would be to say, “Oh, that’s awful!” and then you know I’m empathising with you. But with these kids, they might think that they’ve upset me and they shouldn’t talk about it. And if they want to talk about it, they should talk about it. And considering that all of this bullshit that we’re seeing in all of these countries is exacerbated or being ignored by white privilege, and capitalism in the Western world and all that, the least I can do is shut up and listen, and not let the fact that it’s gonna upset me stand in the way. At that point it doesn’t matter who I am, it just matters that somebody is there listening to them.
How do you talk about your work without celebrating yourself?
I was just having this conversation. Parts of your life have to be sacrificed when you do stuff like this. So in Palestine and when I was out in Kurdistan, I couldn’t go out or date or get laid. I couldn’t get any female attention. And that was kind of alright because when I did get back to Manchester I could be like, “Yeah, I’ve just been in Palestine teaching skateboarding. Oh, your phone number? Lovely!” (laughs). I was proud of what I’d been doing, and felt like I’d earned the right to talk about it. And I noticed that Will (Ascott), whenever anyone asks what he does, just says, “I do some youth work.” And then maybe they’ll pry and maybe he’ll say, “Just with skateboarding.” He plays it down more than anyone I’ve ever seen. And I realised why, because you go through this thing where you realise, I teach kids skateboarding. It’s not difficult. It’s a dream job. And I don’t know if I’m helping a lot, but at least with five kids, I’ve got a really good relationship with them and if they enjoy hanging out with me a fraction of how much I enjoy hanging out with them, I’m bringing something. And other than that, everything around it is ego.
Have you seen volunteers with impure motives? What are some good and bad reasons to come volunteer?
We’ve been really lucky with our volunteer scheme. We did only launch it in October so I don’t have the width and breadth that SkatePal does, by any means. In Athens in general, not with Free Movement volunteers, you see some… not impure motives, because I think the intentions are good in their own way, but just stuff like, “I’m gonna go meet my refugee friend.” Just say he’s your friend mate. Or people that can spend a month in Palestine and then be like, “I think I’m gonna travel around Israel for a bit.” It’s just like… (deep sigh). If you can be here for a month and listen to people and look around and then go to Israel, nothing I say is gonna make a difference. But yeah, and then the obvious, like, “When I was in this island or this island or this refugee crisis or that refugee crisis.” It’s just bragging.
What’s the value of skateboarding to the kids you teach?
Erm… exercise? (laughs). I think exercise and play are incredibly important to children in any safe form. Why I am so into getting people on skateboards is not because I think it is innately better than any other sports. There are plenty of sports where you fall over and get back up again. But the thing that really sticks out to me with skateboarding is, I tend to run toward things that scare me, and the thing that pisses me off about women not volunteering in skating and girls not wanting to skate and adult women thinking they’re too old is that none of the reasons you wouldn’t do it are good enough. It all comes down to fear. Whether it’s fear of being judged by the society around you or fear of looking stupid, fear of getting hurt, fear of what your family and friends will say, whatever. It’s all fear and that isn’t good enough. If you say to me, “Yeah I tried skateboarding but I’m not into it. I really like basketball,” that’s fine. Go play basketball. I just don’t like fear being a motivator. It has to be passion. If you’re passionate about something else, fine, do it. But if you’re not doing something you’re quite curious about and would like to try out of fear… that’s what I’m trying to battle against.
What would you say to someone who likes the idea of volunteering with a skate aid organisation to convince them to actually do it?
Get in touch. Have the conversation. If you send me an email, you’re not committing to doing it, and I’ll send you a load of information, same as Charlie would, same as a lot of these places will. If you have questions, ask them. But have the conversation. Because you might get a response that makes you say, “Fuck, I can do this.” And I will tell you right now that you can.
Get in touch, and go for it. It’s one of the most rewarding things I’ve ever done. It completely turned my life around and it’s something that I wish for a lot of people. I think it’s good for you as a person to throw yourself into something that you’re unsure of. People think you have to understand the situation in Palestine to come here or you have to understand the refugee crisis to go to Athens. Honestly, you will never understand it, as a Western person, but the only way to get close is to be here. Whatever doubts you have that you’re not knowledgeable enough or haven’t read enough books, it’s bollocks. Be here. Meet the people. That will expand your understanding of these situations far more than reading or watching a documentary ever could.
I have an incredibly short attention span. I can’t skateboard very well. I’m pretty much good at what I do because I am a child. Honestly, if I can do it, anybody can. Not knowing all the details isn’t a reason to not go and help. One of the best things I ever did before any of the skating stuff was to start volunteering with women, street and sauna sex workers. That was really the bridge between me dancing and getting out of that. It built my confidence greatly, and at the time I thought I had nothing to offer. Even if you believe you have nothing to offer, you can stand at a sink in a soup kitchen and wash up for three hours. And if no one does that, that soup kitchen can’t run and those people can’t get fed. You can do a job, even if you truly believe you have no skills. I had a friend whose best friend had multiple sclerosis and she was wondering if there was anything she could do. At the soup kitchen, one job is to sit at the top of the stairs and count people in and out so we know how many people have come. Somebody needs to do that. She did that, and that meant that somebody who was able-bodied could wash up or collect plates or whatever. There is always something that you can do. Just do something.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 11, 2017
Val Bauer Interview
Val Bauer. Ph. Jin Yob Kim
I interviewed Val for a French magazine two or three years ago and I have to admit that I didn’t really fancy just redoing the exact same thing. But I’m a nice guy, so what I will do is fill you in on the main things you could learn about him from that interview so that you aren’t completely lost. Val is from the north of France, Lille to be precise. When he was younger he’d drive all the Parisians mad by begging them for a place to stay in order to get into the wonderful world of French sponsored skating. There was also something in there about how he was supposedly gifted and skipped a class at school; a rumour that he decided to deny in the interview although he’d been keeping it going for a little while… Val also chatted about Zeropolis skate shop, which he was involved with for quite some time as well as the early days of Octagon… Anyway if this stuff is actually of any interest to you feel free to DM him, he’ll be available to answer any questions about his career, projects, fears and fantasies…
I will now proceed to give you a little update on Val’s current life in a way that although not particularly informative, should at least be a little different and possibly even funny if I’m lucky.
Backside smith, Paris, Ph. Alex Pires
Interview by Joseph Biais
Now, given that I’ve known
Val
for a long time I’m going to start off by painting an objective portrait of the man and for that I won’t be the one asking the questions: a personality test coming to you straight from ‘the internet’ will. Here are the multiple-choice questions with his answers underlined.
On the phone you dislike:
a) Conversations that drag on
b) Days when you don’t get any calls
c)
Going straight to answer phone
Your mother-in-law invites you over for a Sunday lunch and you bail:
a) Because she shouldn’t start making this a tradition
b) Because you’d already made plans
c)
Promising you’ll come next weekend
You hate:
a) Walking around naked at home
b)
When a friend shares one of your secrets
c) Being alone in the dark
You wish that at your work:
a)
You’d be paid better
b) You’d be offered tasks you were more motivated by
c) You’d get more compliments
A policeman accuses you of driving through a red light:
a) ‘Not at all it wasn’t even orange!’
b)
‘Sorry it was an accident…’
c) ‘I’m in a hurry I need to go and pick up my daughter from school’
For you the most beautiful love letter is:
a)
The one you never sent
b) The first one you ever received
c) The one you’d love to receive today
When you spend a day without seeing anyone:
a) You use that time to catch up on work
b) You get some rest
c)
You feel a little lost
If your son was hesitating between these three sports, you’d encourage him to:
a) Ride a bike
b) Play tennis
c)
Play football
Your hoover is making worrying growling noises:
a)
You give it a kick
b) You call your husband and his toolbox
c) ‘It’s an old one, it’s fine…’
When your friends chat about their work you sometimes envy them because:
a) They have nothing to worry about
b) They get time to spend with their families
c)
They must meet fascinating people
Here’s what ‘the internet’ has concluded about Valentin’s personality. Apparently he’s ‘sociable and wilful’ which they then followed up with:
‘He’s extremely stable both in feelings and in reason. Autonomous, sociable, Valentine can easily put himself in other people’s shoes to take into account their sensitivities and interests. Sadly his kindness is also his weakness; he believes in others so much that he thinks he can move mountains for them, but sometimes good will just isn’t enough.’
Bluntslide in, Rome, Ph. Guillaume Perimony
OK I’m not particularly satisfied with this review. ‘Sociable and wilful’, I’m just about okay with that, but the whole believing in others so much ‘he thinks he can move mountains for them’ business… Come on now, he’s hardly a saint. So I decided to give him a second test, one where he has to finish sentences and this time I’m the one that will be doing the analysis of his answers.
1) When the enemy captured Pierre…
War was declared.
2) I’m always afraid of…
Losing control.
3) I’ve admired…
And I still admire a lot of people.
4) The fact that he failed made him…
Vulnerable in the eyes of his critics.
5) Every time he wasn’t invited…
He organised something else instead.
6) I’m making an effort to…
Not let people down.
7) Unable to find anyone to help him Jean…
Started some online crowd funding bullshit.
8) What really drives me in my life is…
Making each one of my dreams come true so I can replace them with new ones.
9) When he’s free he likes to…
Use that opportunity to seduce.
Hurricane, Bordeaux, Ph. Clement Le Gall
10) What I want out of life is…
To be healthy, attainable, motivating and simple.
11) Nothing more tiring than…
Trying to beat anxiety.
12) My destiny is to…
Meet my expectations (for now).
13) Robert would do anything to…
I’ve never met Robert.
14) Max feels that he’s suffering from…
I haven’t chatted to him in a while.
15) Georges was a bit bothered because…
He’d cheated on his wife with an air-hostess?
16) What they liked the most was…
Accumulating conquests.
17) He thinks that I…
Sometimes over-think stuff, he’s often right.
18) He always introduces himself as if…
He didn’t know we’ve already met a bunch of times.
19)When we told him it was dangerous…
He tried to think of another solution.
20) His past experiences taught him…
To listen to his instincts and to not go against his impulses.
Sentences 7, 13, 14 and 15 show us that Valentin is creative and rather funny, which is sort of true. But the main thing that comes out of this text is that he’s clearly a narcissistic pervert with psychopathic tendencies (see answers
2, 11, 16 and 17).
Noseslide pop-over, Lyon, Ph. Loic Benoit
Because of these conclusions I decided to go straight into another test that would confirm my theory: ‘Are You A Psychopath?’ Sadly he only got 30% so I decided not to share it with you. On the other hand what came out of the two previous tests, and that is a real update about Valentine’s life, is that he’s now more or less a model. Indeed he now pops up in Paris during every fashion week in hope of getting some sort of validation from a casting director in order to wander around on a catwalk for thirty seconds. I’m a little scared for Val though… Scared that he’s not actually ready to face the ruthlessness of the fashion industry, scared that he’d not be strong enough to face the judging eyes of these hordes of Eastern European supermodels, scared that he might slip into anorexia… So I decided to give him a test from Grazia, just to make sure that he’s got what it takes to make it in the merciless world of fashion.
GRAZIA TEST
1. Who’s the new artistic director at Yves Saint Laurent?
a)
Anthony Vaccarello
b) Raf Simmons
c) Maria Grazia Chiuri
2. Spot the mistake amongst these summer 2016 trends:
a) The hamper basket
b)
The lace dress
c) The one-piece swimsuit
3. Where does the word ‘denim’ come from?
a) John Denim who invented the Jean fabric
b) From the word ‘mined’ written backwards, the jean being originally part of miners’ uniform.
c)
From the city of Nîmes where twill cotton is born.
4. Who said: ‘If I could be reincarnated as a fashion accessory, it would be a shopping bag.’
a)
Karl Lagerfeld
b) Christian Lacroix
c) Jean-Charles de Castelbajac
5. Amongst these three pieces, which one isn’t a ‘basic’?
a)
The trench coat
b) The little black dress
c) The denim shirt
6. What do French people call Kate Moss?
a)
The twig
b) The weed
c) The field flower
7. What does the expression ‘see now, buy now’ relate to?
a) A service that will deliver your order in the hour.
b) That a brand has an e-shop
c)
That you can buy clothes from the collections right after the fashion show
8. Who founded the modelling agency ‘Elite’ in 1971?
a) Helmut Newton
b)
Peter Abdul
c) John Casablancas
9. Which of these three photographers shot the famous January 1990 Vogue cover with Linda Evangelista, Naomi Campbell, Tatjana Patitz, Cindy Crawford and Christy Turlington?
a)
Mario Testino
b) Peter Lindbergh
c) Terry Richardson
10. What is Wax?
a) Clothing created by surfers
b) A product used to give jeans a ‘worn’ look
c)
An African fabric
11. Who said ‘At 30 a woman needs to choose between her face and her bottom’?
a) Coco Chanel
b) Christian Dior
c)
Naomi Campbell
12. In what decade was the mini-skirt invented?
a)
The 50s
b) The 60s
c) The 70s
13. What is Jean Paul Gauthier’s favourite piece?
a) The little black dress
b) The tuxedo
c)
The striped jersey
14. Before she become the US Vogue’s artistic director Grace Coddington was _______?
a)
A model
b) A painter
c) A florist
15. What brands are owned by two sisters?
a) Maje and Sandro
b) Zara and Desigual
c)
Mango and Morgan
Ollie, Paris, Ph. Guillaume Perimony
Here’s what Grazia made of his answers:
‘You’ve passed with a distinction! Val knows the fashion industry well and is aware of the latest trends. Something tells us Val is an avid reader of our magazine!’
I guess if even Grazia says Val has his place amongst the Gosha Rubshinskiys and the Karl Lagerfelds then all I can do is wish him the best in this world of Botox and luxury leather goods.
Also here are the right answers to the GRAZIA TEST for those who tried giving it a go themselves: 1a 2b 3c 4a 5c 6b 7c 8c 9b 10c 11a 12b 13c 14a 15a
Losi grind, Lille, Ph. Guillaume Perimony
Now to wrap this up I’ve put together some questions from a game Val particularly enjoys and that I’m sure you’ll have played before (during long journeys especially): ‘Would you rather…’ (Allow me to add that this one is just a bonus test, that unlike the others, will provide very little information about our man)
Would you rather eat one of those tree shaped car deodorisers or have to change your grip every hour when you’re out skating?
New grip is always a treat!
Would you rather have to skate in UK 13s (Euro 49s) your whole life or have to skate in pink 59mm wheels?
I’d go with the 59s… I’d have to only put out black and white footage for the rest of my life though!
Would you rather be forced to say ‘bro’ at the end of each sentence or have to wear 3D glasses your whole life?
3D glasses for sure, bro!
Would you rather have 80cm dreadlocks or have your mum with you 24/7?
I guess I don’t have a choice! ZIM ZIMMA! I’d even send the Canadian Blueprint a sponsor me!
Would you rather have a tribal face tat or have to smoke five packets a day?
The tattoo! Mike Tyson! It would probably go well with my new board sponsor too.
Would you rather have gnarly herpes on your lip that you couldn’t get rid of or have to only wear clothing made out of that synthetic vinyl latex material?
The full vinyl outfit! I’ll just claim I’m a massive George Michael fan.
Would you rather have an eyebrow piercing like Drazic from Heartbreak High or have to skate with two left shoes your whole life?
Well I’ve already got the dreads and the face tat so at this point it’s not like a little piercing will make things much worse. Plus with my vinyl outfit it kind of makes sense…
Would you rather never have access to Instagram ever again or have to include one of Booba (French rapper)’s punch lines in every single one of your sentences?
Farewell Instagram!
I hope you’ve made it to here and that you now really like Valentin and more importantly that you’ll go on follow him on Instagram! (
@val_bauer)
50-50 grind, Lille, Ph. Maxime Verret

================================================================================

BY Will  •  May 30, 2023
Oscar Candon’s ‘Abseiling Down’ part (Giddy 13) + his interview from issue 48
What you’re about to dive into is our second attempt at publishing an Oscar Candon piece, with the first one we had lined up for the July/August 2022 issue getting shelved not because he didn’t have enough photos, nor because we couldn’t get the interview together (the conversation we’d recorded definitely felt worthy of print), but because he ended up requesting we cancel it. A first for us, in the however many years we’d been doing the mag.
The pics Oscar was sitting on for the article at the time were incredible by any standards but he also hadn’t shot anything or even really skated in something like 10 months, and for a number of reasons was not in a good place. He was essentially as burnt out on skating as you could possibly be. The fun and spontaneity that’s meant to define what we do had completely been sucked out of it by having to constantly manage the pain in his dodgy ankles and by the responsibility he felt to produce to an always higher standard, for videos that would instantly get lost in the sea of garbage that floods Instagram every day. The skate-boarding landscape no longer looked like it did in the days of Mosaic, and like so many pros entering their thirties with all their eggs in one basket, he was at a crossroads.
Or as he put it then so poetically:
‘j’ai le cul entre deux chaises et l’impressions qu’elles sont constament en train de s’écarter’
(‘I’m caught between two stools and it feels like they’re constantly moving apart’). The fear of what would come after his current career path was too great for him to keep his head down and continue filming parts, and whilst reckoning with this transition had landed himself in a pretty dark place.
What are you looking at now then? The story of how he managed to dodge that ticking time bomb, fall back in love with skateboarding, and learn how to do pull-ups from his fingertips in the process.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
Okay, so I listened back to the interview we did last summer, and feel like it could be a good starting point…
Oscar Candon: Oh god ha ha, I’m getting anxious just thinking about it. I was seriously depressed when we did that. But yeah it makes sense to start there I guess… It’s weird because it stems from something that’s really simple but really complicated at the same time.
It basically came down to a few different parts of my life going wrong… I was in the midst of a break-up with my ex-girlfriend and it ended really badly, and then skateboarding was not going well. My ankles were fucked and it felt like I was in constant pain, but also I was putting a really unhealthy amount of pressure on myself. Probably because it was all I had really, and that it was my only source of income… But anyway I was trapped in a spiral of always having to one-up myself, and nothing ever felt good enough. Throw Covid into the mix and the fact that living in Paris wasn’t working out for me at all (for reasons I don’t necessarily want to go into here) and some complicated stuff that was going on with my family…
It was an accumulation of all these things I felt I had no control over, and the only way I knew how to cope was to keep moving forward in exactly the same way as I had forever: skateboarding. It’s hard to say exactly what the straw that broke the camel’s back was, but suddenly I hit a wall.
Since the age of 17, all I’d done was work on video project after video project, travelling, just non-stop moving things along in the same direction without realising that there were lots of other aspects of my life that I’d completely neglected, and this was affecting me a lot more than I’d realised.
Ph. Clément Le Gall
I guess there’s that thing as well where as a skater whenever shit’s not going well we feel like at least skating isn’t going anywhere, and that it will always be there to make us feel better. If suddenly it no longer has that power I bet that makes it all even more terrifying…
Yeah exactly. And now being more or less out of this hole, I’m having fun skating again, and even enjoying trying harder stuff that I find challenging and scary, but it had gotten to the point where it was like, okay now it’s my work, and my work is to do the hardest tricks I can. I just couldn’t find pleasure in it in the same way… And I could feel that something wasn’t quite right, that something was missing, but I’d double up and put even more of myself into skateboarding and then trips would go badly, my ankles would be playing up, and my whole world felt like it would be crumbling because it was all I had. Just like how sometimes you feel on top of the world when trips and stuff go well. And I’m sure I’m not the only sponsored skater to go through this but yeah, when we did the interview last time I’d reached a tipping point. I knew I needed to make changes in my life because I really wasn’t well.
I’ve heard other people that skate for a living say that they’ve struggled to accept when things aren’t going well like this because it feels wrong to them to complain because what they were doing was on paper their ‘dream job’. Was there a bit of that too?
Completely. And when I meet people that ask me what I do for a living 99% of the time the reaction is, ‘You’re living off your passion, that’s incredible, you’re so lucky’ putting the whole thing on this pedestal. And it is incredible in so many ways! But having to perform can get in the way of what made it your passion in the first place.
McGrath grind, San Sebastian. Ph. Clément Le Gall
Something you mentioned last time as well was this blurring of the boundaries between work relationships and friendships, and how when you change sponsors you sometimes suddenly no longer spend any time with the people you were really close to.
Yeah because if you’re really motivated, you can essentially spend your whole life travelling and filming!
Supra
is a good example of this: I spent I don’t even know how many years constantly travelling with Spencer (Hamilton,) Lucien (Clarke), Lizard King, etc. and by the end of it we were all really close. And we’ll text every now and then or whatever, but like I’ve seen Spencer once in the last four years. You form these relationships that then almost completely disappear when you change sponsors, and alongside all this by barely ever being at home (if you do even have a base), so you’ve not really built the same long-lasting connections with close friends in the same ways as most other people do.
And yeah just what you said, when your work is your passion, the people you essentially work with, sometimes even your employers, become your friendship group. And I’ve always been really good friends with my TMs, which is obviously great, but there’s always going to be that risk of what you expect from people in terms of how you’d like your career to evolve getting confused with what you’d expect from them as a friend. It can easily all become really confusing and personal…
Yeah. Plus evolving in a world where people have something to gain from certain friendships, where being around certain skaters or filmers can mean more opportunities for coverage or sponsors or whatever, some of those relationships aren’t necessarily always the healthiest. Whether you’re conscious of it or not.
Yeah exactly. Although sometimes you can see these kinds of people from a mile away.
But also it’s a bit like, can you blame them? I think it’s good to be ambitious, and in a way, it’s normal to gravitate towards people doing things you find exciting. Like if I have the opportunity to skate with a skateboarder I look up to, of course I’m going to take it. When I’m on a Sour trip and I see Gustav (Tønnesen) and all the other guys skating I sometimes stop and think to myself, ‘I’m so hyped I get to be a part of this and witness people skateboarding this well.’
Of course! And it would suck if it wasn’t that way. Letting our shared passion inform who we gravitate towards is normal…
It’s just that this stuff being at play is inevitably going to influence certain friendship dynamics.
What were some of the steps you took to get back on your feet?
The main thing I did was not step on my board for a year. I wanted my ankles to get some rest but also figure things out in my head without skateboarding. I don’t think as humans we were designed to just only do one thing… When I was younger I always loved building stuff and I’d done an apprenticeship in carpentry, so I decided to try getting into that again. Basically committing myself to properly investing in other important aspects of my life, in hope that it would take away some of the pressure I was putting on skating, and learning new skills, preparing a potential transition so that financially
I didn’t have to be completely dependent on skating, and just stepping out of that world a bit and meeting new people… It really helped.
Switch crooked grind, Thessaloniki. Ph. DVL
Were you seeing a therapist?
I was, but it’s not like seeing a therapist just miraculously sorted me out. It was really good to talk to someone who was knowledgeable, there to listen, and could express how they felt about what I was going through extremely clearly, but it’s not what got me out of the dark hole I was in. I’d say maybe it was more of a crutch, just because it was easier to discuss certain subjects that are sometimes tricky to discuss with your friends, either because it makes them uncomfortable or reignites their own angst…
What’s funny is that the guy I found was pretty tough. It was not a breathing exercise, ‘don’t worry it’s going to be okay…’ kind of situation. Like he didn’t exactly show very much empathy ha ha. It was all very to the point, almost like, ‘Okay I’ve heard you loud and clear, and to me A + B = you’re being a moron and you know very well that this is what you need to do’ ha ha. Not in an aggressive way and it’s not like he was making fun of me, but he was just unbelievably pragmatic, which may not work for everyone but at that point it’s exactly what I needed I think.
What about the move to Biarritz? After having lived in Barcelona and Paris, both big rather hectic skate cities, I bet that did you a world of good.
Yeah but getting to that point wasn’t easy… When you’re stuck on your couch feeling really lost and down it’s so hard to pick a direction. Deciding where you’re going to try to live or what you want to do with your life becomes terrifying, because all you see is all the other possibilities you’d be sacrificing if you were to pick one road to go down. It feels impossible at times but the only way out of it is to really force yourself to try different bits, put out feelers, etc. I’m honestly so lucky that I already had carpentry, which
I knew I could enjoy and that I wouldn’t be completely starting from scratch. It’s what saved me. Because that’s what’s the scariest for a lot of pro skaters when thinking about what comes after, it’s having to completely start from scratch, put their ego aside and be a total beginner at whatever they’re going to launch themselves into, when (often unconsciously) your confidence and your personality are built off you being ‘the expert’ in your domain, and the people around you knowing this. It’s like suddenly when it comes to every-thing else in life you’re learning how to ollie whilst everyone else is already really good.
So yeah what really helped me over the past year was working in carpentry again, working with all kinds of people on lots of different projects, learning a lot, and eventually opening my little workshop in Biarritz, which essentially felt like I was slowly building myself a parachute, to not be completely free-falling if skateboarding were to suddenly stop working for me. And obviously, it’s a lot of really physical work, but it’s a parachute I’ve genuinely been enjoying building.
Issue 48’s cover: Oscar nollie kickflips into the bank in Capbreton, France. Ph. Clément Le Gall
I guess skating and travelling lots also tend to come hand in hand with a lot of drinking and partying, which I know you consciously cut down on a bit, especially then.
And at the same time, you picked up other physical hobbies, like surfing and rock climbing. How did all this stuff fit into this journey?
I mean the main thing here is that as you know after you turn thirty the hangovers feel 10 times worse. I still like to go for drinks and chat shit on the weekends though…
Regarding surfing, I think I can categorically say that I’m over it now, ha ha. It turns everyone into arseholes. As soon as there’s a good wave everyone starts fighting for it and any kind of courtesy goes out the window. It makes me aggressive and I find myself hating everyone I’m in the water with, ha ha. And I’m sure some of the people I’ve dealt with are lovely people on land, I just think it brings out the dormant dickhead in each of us ha ha. I’d much rather go rock climbing where everyone is really calm, polite and friendly. But clearly: having another sport on the side has been really good for me mentally and physically. I’m 30 and feeling the best I’ve ever felt in my body and I know that it’s thanks to that, other than this bloody rolled ankle, ha ha. But yeah, I really encourage skaters to give it a try, it complements skateboarding perfectly as it reinforces your joints, is really good for your core strength…
How’s the ‘beast maker’ program been treating you?
My rock-climbing career is going to take a serious hit with this rolled ankle, so yeah I’ve just been doing this training program where you do pull-ups from your fingertips on tiny holds ha ha. I’ve got fuck all else to do so just trying to stay in shape.
Sounds chill ha ha.
But anyway, coming back to your original question, I think the main thing is that it was really good for me to have an alternative sport where it didn’t feel like I always had to perform. It’s physical, and I really go for it when I’m out there, but if it doesn’t go well it doesn’t matter in the slightest. And that’s amazing for me. We’re all so passionate about skateboarding that it’s easy to hyper-focus on it until we implode. Like honestly a few years ago it got to the point where I’d think of a trick, and before even bothering to try it I’d convince myself that it wasn’t good enough and leave it at that. And before I’d know it, it would be three months since I’d last tried a trick because nothing was hard enough according to this imaginary bar I’d set myself. So you think you’re really ambitious but actually, you aren’t even skating. It’s not viable… And I know there are other dudes, like in Paris even, who go through the same thing.
Ollie up pivot to fakie, Anglet. Ph. Clément Le Gall
That just made me think actually: when we had our chat last summer and you were essentially saying you were pretty much done with it all, I remember you going back on it with something along the lines of ‘actually I’d love to still be able to keep doing stuff for Sour, on my own terms, because that’s different’. Why did the idea of still doing stuff for them feel any different from your other responsibilities as a pro skater?
Because their videos and their skating are just too good in my opinion. No matter how over it I’d be, the idea of being in something they’d be making would always feel special for me, and no matter what I’m putting myself through to get a clip, something for Sour would just always feel like it’s worth it. I’ve watched hundreds of skate videos but very few resonate with me in the way theirs do. They’re all so naturally talented, doing the hardest shit, but at the same time, there’s a tasteful simplicity in the way they approach it all, especially in the editing. Not really following any of the current trends… I don’t know, watching Sour videos always makes me feel something. I’ll always want to be a part of it I think.
And I guess this is something you didn’t feel with the other projects you had on at the time?
Yeah… And I really don’t want this to turn into something where I chat shit about Vans because it’s not their fault I was feeling this way back then, and they were nothing but supportive, and continued paying me when I was going through all this and took a long break from skating, which Alex Forbes (Brand Marketing) and Chris Pfanner (Team Manager) know I’m incredibly grateful for. It’s just that these trips with loads of people, lots of drinking, etc., it just wasn’t working for me. But that has to do more with me than them because all the guys on the team smash it on those trips, they work really well for them.
I think part of it is that I’d been on Supra for all these years, where it was a relatively small team, and although the main dudes were nowhere near as big as the main dudes on some of the other major shoe brands, everyone was pretty established, very professional, all knew what they had to do, etc. It was a small but well-oiled machine. And it’s not like getting on Vans felt like a downgrade, because they’re all insane skaters, but I guess suddenly I was around lots of younger really hungry guys, guys that were hungrier than me, whereas with Supra I was used to travelling with Greco, Spencer, Lucien… I guess I just found it hard to find my place. And with everything I was going through, and this feeling of responsibility I had because they paid me well, I struggled to navigate that transition and adapt. I’m sure I could have handled it better, but at the time I just wasn’t able to. And I’m happy that we’ve parted ways on good terms.
Gap to backside 50-50, San Sebastian. Ph. Clément Le Gall
And now you’re on Cons?!
I know right?! Madness ha ha. I somehow snagged myself a nice little deal, I kind of still can’t believe it. They’ve got a big video project focusing on Rémy and Jamie coming out next year that I’ve been asked to be a part of, which I’m really excited about. Plus I have a lot of respect for the people they have on the team both in Europe and in the States. I still have this thing where seeing natural talent in skaters really impresses me, and a lot of those guys are very much like that. I can just sit back and watch some of them skate flat and be mesmerised, it’s just beautiful. In fact, that’s always been how I judge if someone is actually good at skateboarding: watching them skate flat.
I also just feel like I’m finally in a better place, especially with my relationship with skating; it’s a good time to try something new.
Want to tell us about the time you almost died on that mountain? Feel like this thing is starting to get a bit too cheerful.
Ha ha I’m down. It’ll balance out all the other stuff. I’m worried I’m starting to sound like some kind of weird motivational speaker ha ha.
Basically I have a childhood friend called Flo who’s been rock-climbing since he was young, and who decided he wanted to do this 500m climbing route in the Alps with me for his 40th birthday. It’s one of those ones you have to do in stages you know, like how they do it in that Dawn Wall film basically. And I’d done a few multi-pitch climbs like this before and it’s usually pretty straightforward, but you still need to be a little careful.
Anyway, randomly this guy happened to be friends with
Gabeeb
(Gabriel Engelke) through their kids going to the same school and he decided to invite him to come along too despite him having zero experience in this sort of thing. Obviously Gabeeb’s strong, a bit of an adventurer, and he had come climbing with me a few times before this, but yeah, he’d never done any multi-pitch climbs or anything like this.
So yeah that’s the context in which we set out to The Aravis, in The Alps at the end of September, which is the absolute very end of the rock-climbing season. Like it’s really the cut-off point for when people do this kind of thing because it starts to get a bit cold for it then, there can be a bit of snow, etc., after that it’s Alpinism, which is a whole other thing.
The idea was to get there on the Friday, do the climb on the Saturday and leave on the Sunday, but when I met them at the airport there was a change of plan: the forecast had changed and it was now meant to piss it down both days on the weekend, which means we wouldn’t be able to climb… So it was decided that we’d drive up there straight away and see if it was possible to bosh it out that day: ‘Maybe we can just try to do it quick!’ First mistake ha ha… You don’t try to do 500-metre multi-pitch climbs ‘quick’. Keeping in mind that they’d also flown into Geneva from Barcelona and had landed at 9am ha ha, so they’d been up since who-knows what time, ha ha.
So I drove us to the mountain as quickly as I could, but what we didn’t realise is that once you get there there’s also a three and a half hour hike to get to where you’re meant to start the climb, which we managed to charge through in two hours. It’s worth pointing out that there was only a path for a little bit of this hike, after that there’s a refuge and between the refuge and the start of the climbing route it’s just a sea of rocks, and you use cairns (basically big piles of rocks) to navigate yourself. They’re there so people know where they are going and don’t walk off cliffs basically.
Nollie 180 switch backside nosegrind revert, Bordeaux. Ph. Clément Le Gall
We get to the climbing route around half-one, which is much later than we’d originally planned but obviously decide to try it anyway, telling ourselves that if it gets to 5ish and it looks like we won’t make it we’ll just turn back. Mainly because abseiling down always takes longer than you think and you don’t want it to get dark or you’re fucked.
It’s worth noting that it’s not necessarily the most technical climb, but more that it’s a relatively long and tiring one. Plus there are still a few tricky bits, bits where you get gassed, etc.
Anyway long story short, it’s all going really well, we’re making good progress and we’re all feeling pretty confident we’ll be able to do the whole thing, when at the last stretch before the top (which is where we’d be able to walk safely down to a refuge) there comes a point where Gabeeb just can’t go through, it’s just too technical. We discuss our options, contemplate helping Gabeeb up, but Flo, who’s the most experienced, is also rinsed, and it’s not going to get any easier, so he calls it: we’re going back down. We’re a bit gutted as we can see the top but whatever, it is what it is. As predicted the abseiling down turned out to be a complete nightmare, and it completely fucked us. The rope kept getting stuck, by 8.30pm we still had two thirds of the way to go to get to the bottom, and next thing you know we’re abseiling in the pitch black. By this point we’re already pretty scared, and when we finally make it to the bottom it’s midnight: and it starts pissing it down. Like really pissing it down. You know in Forrest Gump when he says: ‘We been through every kind of rain there is. Little bitty stingin’ rain… and big ol’ fat rain. Rain that flew in sideways,’ that’s literally how it was. We were completely soaked, as if we’d jumped in a swimming pool with our clothes on. Temperature drops to like 2/3 degrees… And it’s a lapies (weathered limestone surface found in karst regions) so it’s just stones everywhere…
…which with the torrential rain probably feels like they’ve all been waxed to fuck.
Yeah it’s like everything around you is caked in wax and there’s El Toro at every corner ha ha. Because you’re surrounded by cliffs, so you’re walking really slowly too… And it gets to the point where we’re all delirious and can no longer see these cairns that are meant to help us find our way because of the darkness and the conditions, so at 4am, Flo, our leader, tells us we need to find shelter, and we give up. Of course there was not a cave in sight, so we scurried under this rock that barely protected us from the rain or wind, and huddled together under the one survival blanket we had. But obviously it’s freezing, so you’re all on top of each other trying to keep warm, kind of like a pile on after you’ve scored a goal at school, so it’s reaIly uncomfortable and you’re constantly wiggling around, and on one of my wiggles I accidentally ripped our tiny blanket to shreds. That’s the closest we got to really losing it at each other I think, but luckily we always managed to not let stuff escalate because otherwise the whole thing would have been ten times worse. In the end I think I dug a hole for us, thinking it might be warmer, and we gathered some rocks in an attempt to make ‘walls’ to protect us from the wind. None of this worked though obviously, and it’s by far the coldest I’ve ever been in my life. Just hours of going in and out of having fits of shivering… Absolute idiots.
And when you’re moving or looking for cairns or something your mind is distracted, but it’s when you stop and have time to think about what’s going on that it all comes crashing down and you realise how dangerous it is… It was really fucking scary. I’ve never told my parents this one.
Did you guys end up calling for help?
No, we peeled ourselves up when the sun came up and re-attempted to make our way to the refuge, completely delirious and hallucinating by this point. Like I was convinced I saw a goldfish in a puddle at one point… It was ridiculous. We hadn’t eaten since the day before at lunchtime, were completely out of water, licking rocks for moisture… We were a mess; we’d fully lost it, ha ha. Oh and naturally we quickly realised once the sun was up that we’d slept 10 metres away from the cairn we were looking for.
Of course ha ha.
I think at one point when it got a bit lighter we managed to see like three cairns in a row, I burst into tears, and that was it really, ha ha. We knew we were gonna make it.
Ollie up to backside tailslide, Paris. Ph. Alex Pires
Sounds traumatic.
Yeah it was, although I’d say there was only really 20 minutes or something where I was actually scared for my life. Those two have kids so I could tell the whole thing felt a bit different for them…
I guess at least you guys learnt a good lesson.
Yeah: never try to do something like this ‘quick’.
It’s funny because it kinda comes back to what we were saying earlier a bit. How skaters, being so used to being the experts in what they do, kind of expect to somehow just be experts in everything else. Like, ‘aaaaah I’m sure it’ll be fine, let’s just try it’ is such a skater way of thinking about stuff.
Yeah, skateboarding definitely breeds hot-headed idiots, ha ha. Just thinking back to how we were when we were kids, trying to huck kickflips down ten stairs when we could barely skate, ha ha. That’s going to stick with you. Just the fact that Gabeeb did this with us ha ha…
So ridiculous.
Okay last one: what’s the best thing about shooting with Clém (Le Gall)?
I’d say how deeply in love with skateboarding he is, as in the physical act of skate-boarding. You just know that when he goes to bed he’s thinking about the slappy trick he’s going to attempt the next day. Like I don’t think there’s anything in the world he enjoys more than learning a trick. And that really rubs off on you, it’s infectious. Because most people don’t feel like that about skateboarding every day, I certainly don’t.
That little part he filmed
for his Insta
was epic!
Yeah. For that he’d usually get up before everyone and convince someone he’s on a trip with to go film him try this trick he’s got in mind for a few hours! And you can tell some-times he’s more stressed out about the trick that he has to try in the morning than some of the skaters that need to get shit for the article, ha ha. I’ve gone out
on a morning session for him to try something and caught him necking a RedBull in anticipation of his huck ha ha. He loves it.
You and him are a pretty perfect combo given what you were saying earlier about your relationship with skating last year.
Yeah he’s just so genuinely excited by it and it’s so pure… It’s exactly what I want to be around.
Team Nico in full effect. Ph. Clément Le Gall

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 29, 2020
Already Been Done?
Kristian Bomholt, 360 flip to fakie, Barcelona, 2006. Ph: Alberto Polo. (click on images to enlarge)
Marcelino Castro, 360 flip to fakie, Barcelona. Published in Kingpin, 2006. Ph: Gaston Francisco.
Jaakko Ojanen , 360 flip to fakie, Barcelona, Independent Trucks ad in Free, 2020. Ph: Fabien Ponsero.
The initial impetus for the piece before you came from a decidedly innocent comment that I left on a skateboarding clip posted on Instagram.
Rather than dox anyone, let’s just say that the trick in question was being performed at one of the most well known spots in London and had been documented previously, more than a decade before.
My comment was in no way intended to be mean-spirited or snide – it was just one of those half-thoughts expressed via smartphone that flood our feeds on a daily basis.
After watching the clip a couple of times I posted ‘Everything is ABD’ underneath it. I did so partly because I remembered the original sequence of the same trick, and partly because I knew the person whose video I was commenting on and thus assumed that it would be taken as it was intended; nothing more than a pointless bit of banter on an otherwise impressive skateboard trick.
However, subsequent to my comment, another more militant response soon appeared on the same post. This time around the tone wasn’t as playful and read as more of a ‘call out’ if that makes sense.
I’m fairly sure that the ensuing comment thread was never meant to be malicious but it quickly evolved from what had begun as a mindless bubble of thought blown on the breeze of Instagram, into a semi ‘serious’ debate about whether or not the once sacred principle of respecting what has already been done (ABD) was being violated by today’s skateboard scene.
At this point I’d like to just throw in a quick disclaimer in case any of you reading are erring towards misinterpreting this little article as yet another ‘bitter old man bemoaning the youth’ scenario. That is definitively NOT my intention.
All this is intended to be is an opportunity to consider some of the cultural rules at work within skateboarding, how attitudes towards these rules may or may not change over time, and to poke a little fun at everyone with a horse in the race, myself included. Okay? Cool…
So back to the matter in hand: the Insta beef mentioned above, (the usual storm in a teacup that lingered for a couple of days before dissolving) sparked off a thought process in my head around the concept of ABD.
Given that I no longer work in the skate industry, it wasn’t really something that I’d dedicated much brain space to in a long time. In my current profession, obsessing over who did the first hardflip down the Snide 3 isn’t really something awarded much importance and thus I’ve necessarily had to reign in my natural inclination to store this kind of niche information since entering the ‘real world’ a couple of years ago.
There was a time when I took the duty of gate-keeping this shit way too seriously though. Back before smartphones and self-publishing, anybody lucky enough to work for a skateboard magazine was expected to approach their role with a degree of earnest devotion to the cause of wider progression and cultural awareness.
Inevitably, this meant acquiring a good working knowledge of ABD lists for all the current hotspots and being prepared to drop the hammer if anyone dared to reshoot any notable tricks in contravention of the rules.
My sense of duty was two-fold in that, not only did I work for a magazine but I was also a filmer and during the period from the mid ‘90s to the mid ‘00s – filmers pretty much set the agenda for magazine content. (I’m sure that statement will have annoyed a fair few photographers but they all know it’s true.)
Videographers were always paid the least so I like to think that this maltreatment is the underlying reason why (myself included) they tended to fall straight into the skate Nazi stereotype and always be the people most vocal about infringements of the ABD credo. If anyone was going to call out an ABD, it was going to be the guy kneeling on a gardening mat, in tramp piss, cradling a convex Japanese eye.
This musing got me thinking further – why had this been the case?
And why, a couple of decades after filmers had grabbed the reins and started driving the horses towards Century Optics glory, was it still filmers who seemed to care the most about this (possibly) outmoded concept that you’re not allowed to re-document a trick that has already been done?
Historical context required at this point methinks. There is obviously nothing time-specific about the idea that skateboarders collectively strive towards newness and novelty as a cultural goal. It has been ever thus.
The concept under discussion that has acquired the mantle ‘ABD’ since maybe the mid ‘90s is just another incarnation of the fundamental dichotomy that sits at the heart of skateboarding.
In the ‘70s it was framed as ‘surf vs. concrete’, in the ‘80s to mid ‘90s it was ‘tricks vs. style’ and then from that point onwards, the opposing polarities of ABD vs. NBD formed the shorthand. Despite the different names, culturally we’ve essentially been talking about the same thing since skateboarding started. This duality forms the core of skateboarding’s meaning and gives each of us a side of the fence to inhabit.
Whether you choose to look at it as ‘new thing’ versus ‘old thing done well’ or you view skateboarding’s linear progression as more important than the refinement of its performance – it’s the same old argument and the social media spat that first inspired this ramble attests to the fact that, for some of us at least, this element of skateboarding is not something to be taken lightly.
The currency of skateboard culture is (to a certain extent at least) documented skateboard tricks. Skate culture imposes a hierarchy on this cultural capital, often via the medium through which these tricks are documented and presented to the wider culture.
This hierarchy operates because certain rules are generally accepted: harder tricks are more valuable than easier ones; never been done tricks at well-known spots add to the history of a place and thus have more intrinsic cultural value than ABDs; ‘it’s not what you do, it’s the way that you do it’; a photo in a magazine is more important than a photo on the Internet, etc., etc.
Which brings us back around to the matter in hand – in today’s skateboarding universe where literally millions of skateboarding tricks are uploaded in real time to the Internet every minute of the day – can a rule such as that tied into the notion of ‘ABD = illegal’ really still hold any importance?
Personally, I’m not 100% sure of my opinion: I do think that adhering to the idea that only NBD tricks should be documented by ‘proper’ skate media at recognisable and historically significant spots is logical and correct.
Does that sound OTT?
Consider it this way then – why wouldn’t
Thrasher
or
Free
or
Solo
or
Slam
print another photo of a backside flip down Wallenberg on their covers?
Is it out of respect for Andrew Reynolds? For the spot? For the mythos around the trick list created at the spot that demands sequencing and recognition of pioneers? Or is it because printing an ABD at an iconic spot like that would subtract credibility from a supposedly ‘serious’ skateboard publication?
ABD militancy sort of makes sense looked at through that example, right?
Well yeah, but only until you throw in another variable. What about if a local zine shot and published the same shot? That doesn’t matter, right?
Or what about if a photographer shoots their mate backside flipping Wallenberg and posts it on Insta? That’s cool too, right?
If we agree with the above it leads to the inevitable conclusion that we’re then accepting that there are tiers of documentation and that the rules for those skate media at the ‘top’ (national mags, company videos, etc.) are not the same for those at the ‘bottom’ (homie videos, local zines, social media, etc.).
Equally, if someone shoots a bail shot of a trick at a famous spot and it gets published first, can the person who actually lands the trick still claim NBD and demand that their photo is printed?
And we’ve not even mentioned tranny here: why does ABD not apply to transition? Or does it apply but only in certain instances?
Shite…I’ve confused myself now. I’ll be honest, when I first started writing this, I was reasonably confident that I knew where I stood on the issue but, the more I’ve delved into the internal logic of the idea, the less certain I’ve become.
What I will say by way of a conclusion before I pass the mic over to other, far more esteemed skateboarding minds than mine, is the following:
One of the dominant cultural theories of the last half century, Postmodernism, states that ‘nothing new can be created, leaving everyone with only the option of relentless quoting and remaking pre-existing things – a context in which the only way to get noticed is to be ironic’.
Postmodernist theorists present this idea as a fixed fact, something immune to further debate. If you’ve been to University in the last 20 years and studied anything remotely related to Arts or Humanities then you’ll know just how deeply this supposed ‘fact’ has penetrated modern thinking.
Personally, I’ve always thought it was bollocks: nothing more than sophistry and word wanking by a bunch of egotistical academics desperate to leave their mark on the world through competitive nihilism. I think my deep contempt for this doctrine – that every possible story had already been written, every possible thought had already been considered, every conceivable piece of music or art had already been recorded or created and so on – made me fall even more deeply in love with skateboarding.
At the same time that I was being force-fed Lacan, Derrida and Foucault at Uni and being told that there was no such thing as truth and that the notion of anyone possibly coming up with a new idea was laughable – I was also out skateboarding with hundreds of fellow enthusiasts who were pulling off personal and cultural NBDs on a weekly basis.
This disconnect between the risible nonsense I was reading at University and the clear and present reality of new ideas and never before considered tricks happening all around me made me proud to be a skateboarder then, and it makes me proud to be one now.
Fuck you Derrida – Henry Sanchez just fakie flipped out of a fakie 5-0. NBD!!!
– Ben Powell
Jerome Campbell, backside tailslide. Cyprus. Published in Sidewalk, 2012. Ph: Sam Ashley.
Sebastiaan Vijverberg, backside tailslide, Cyprus, 2015. Ph: DVL.
Mark Baines:
I remember the idea of ABD was treated with a lot of respect when I was younger – in a similar way to how spots were shown respect by not blowing them out. That pretty much doesn’t exist any more and hasn’t since the rise of people making their name via Insta by pushing as much footage out as they can to build that following.
Personally, I think it’s sad, but I grew up in a different era where these unsaid rules were respected almost universally. If you did a trick knowing that someone else had already done it back then, it would be considered super lame; and rightly so. Letting the original person have their moment for being the first person to do something shows respect. I don’t think people care about that shit anymore. We live in a different time.
Let’s be honest, half the stuff people post of themselves on Insta today would have been called out instantly in the ‘90s. It’s crazy that everyone loves the ‘90s but half of the unsaid rules that defined that era don’t apply now. The militancy of observing ‘the rules’ were a lot of reason why the ‘90s created so much rad shit and the ignorance of the same rules explains why we now have a sea of shite with a few gems sprinkled here and there.
Leo Valls:
I never really paid much attention to the concept of ABD in skateboarding. Firstly because I believe skateboarding is so much more interesting than just counting tricks. To me, it is about the way you do a trick, how unique and personal it looks, but also where you do the trick and what kind of vibe you show in your footage. Most importantly, I want to see skaters enjoying themselves and looking like they’re having a good time.
The time we’re living right now, confined at home, is a good reminder that skateboarding is about sharing: sharing with friends, sharing with other city users. At the end of the day, everyone could perform on the same spot doing the same trick and it will most likely look different, because everyone’s styles and ways of doing tricks is different, and that’s the beauty of skateboarding.
I often say that skateboarding doesn’t have rules but has codes. I remember ABD really being a thing 10 or 15 years ago, especially in cities that would experience a lot of skate tourism, like LA or NYC; it was sometimes considered wrong to go skate a spot if someone else had found it first. It created unnecessary tensions between skaters; at least that’s how I saw it. Today, it feels like the surplus of skate footage on social media and such – especially the ‘fun’, and ‘on the go’ footage – made the ABD concept a bit irrelevant.
Hjalte Halberg:
Skating is all about references.
If you know your history you can get away with almost everything in skateboarding, even ABDs.
Dom Henry:
The ABD concept has certainly taken a battering with the near-endless release of new skate content to keep up with every week. I think it’s good not to re-tread the same ground, but you can’t expect skaters these days to have seen every video that comes out – it was a little easier to keep track a decade or so back as there was a smaller cluster of formalised releases that would get almost unanimous focus.
I think there’s some leeway for an ABD popping up in a tour edit by a visiting pro that is none the wiser. It’s a bit more disappointing if it’s a trick from a classic video reproduced in a video from the same city, but again, sometimes people genuinely don’t know. I sadly fell into this category myself last year – I spent my last chance to film for Cafe’s
Ensemble
video filming a trick down a stair set in London that was definitely beyond my usual comfort zone, only to have it pointed out afterwards that it was ABD – so who am I to talk?
I was gutted as I don’t ‘huck’ all that much and having no chance to replace the clip I really wanted to use it, so much so that I actually asked the skater who’d done it first for their permission to run with it, which they kindly granted – with the words, ‘do what you want with it – it’s ABD.’
Marcus Shaw:
I feel it applies more to the city you are in/from and within that scene. In Oslo I feel ABDs are still very much a thing, but more with the Norwegians than with people travelling here. Guess it’s a combination of respecting others in a pretty small scene and the ‘validation’ of doing tricks at spots that have been skated for decades.
I’ve been on a ton of Euro trips where the question has come up and the rule hasn’t applied as much: ‘Some guy from here did that years ago, but can’t remember where the footage is,’ and ‘just do it anyway, nobody will care if it’s done,’ or ‘it’s been done but would still be cool if you did it’, etc. Guess it’s a combination of time and exposure of the trick. Some ABDs just wouldn’t make sense to do again, like the obvious tricks that come to mind with a spot. I feel it’s the tricks in between if that makes sense. Tricks will still show up in international videos from Oslo that are ABD, but it’s still cool to see those tricks.
For example: A lot more Germans would notice that you do an ABD at a Berlin spot than the entire rest of the audience watching that part. Of course taking into account that the trick isn’t in a very well known video or part.
Kevin Rodrigues, 50–50 grind , Badalona. Posted on Instagram, 2018. Ph: Rémy Taveira.
Ulph Andersson, 50–50 grind, Badalona, 2019. Ph: Fabien Ponsero.
Helena Long:
The ABD thing is a topic that has come up on quite a few all-female skate trips that I’ve been part of and there was this running joke that ABD only stands for guys and that there should be an ABGirl-D and NBGirl-D. I personally quite liked this idea but also I think it highlights a deeper conversation about gender and ability.
In general, I think as popular as skateboarding is in 2020, I still quite enjoy the concept of ABD as it helps push people to think outside the box and come up with something more original or inventive. It’s this creative approach to boundaries and skate spots where I find the most joy when it comes to skateboarding.
However, I also think that skateboarding is like a combi-lock, there are so many different combinations that make up a skater as an individual, so even if there is an ABD, someone could still do the same trick but in their own way, with their own style, clothes, board shape, etc. and it’d be like an NBD.
I feel like because so much has been done, it’s harder and harder to see people come up with ‘new tricks’.  I do find it impressive to see NBD tricks, but usually it’s something incredibly tech that, if I’m honest, doesn’t really get me that hyped.
I don’t think it matters that much, as skateboarding is so mainstream now, it’s hard to find or recognise what is actually an NBD trick. I wouldn’t be surprised if there’s someone out there who’s already gone and done it in their garage with no interest in broadcasting it on social media. I think it only matters to the individual who has made it their thing to come up with NBD tricks.
Geoff Campbell:
Doing an ABD is as much of a crime as whatever party wants to make it really.
I’ve knowingly done ABDs before so I don’t really have an argument to say NEVER do an ABD trick or I’m being a hypocrite.
I would say though – general rule: if you are aware of tricks that have been done at spots, try and do something different or take the trick to a different spot.
People are out just cruising and doing tricks that people have done in proper videos years ago and filming it for Instagram.
This can be perceived as a diss like, ‘this trick is just a warm up for Instagram; it’s easy.’ That isn’t always the case though. Some people spend hours on tricks for Instagram but because they’re released as a ‘filmed on a phone’ clip people are given the impression that it was just knocked out easily.
I’ve seen videos come out where 5-10 tricks in there are ones I’ve filmed of people and were in my videos on the same spots years ago. That doesn’t really bother me… If anything it just makes the new guy look silly for not paying more attention to the local skate scene and it’s flattering to the guy who came before and did the trick… ‘Cool this guy still thinks this is a good enough trick to put in a video and myself or someone else did it 10 years ago, I’m flattered.’
Jacopo Carozzi:
I feel like in a personal skate evolution you need to have something that makes you step up; I see the concept of THE NBD as a way to try something different, maybe to fight your own fears. I don’t know… Personally I don’t always follow the NBD concept as every skater has a different approach to spots, a different style… You could see two skaters do the same trick at the same spot but for some reason you liked one of them more! For example I wouldn’t care if John Cardiel did all the ABDs ‘cause it’s Cardiel so it’s totally different to me!
Think for a second of a photo you really like… Now on the same spot just change the skater and add the one you’ve always looked up to… Would you care if it was an ABD? I guess tricks are as personal as skateboarding!
I feel like we shouldn’t be so picky about ABDs… We should just think that everyone fought their own personal wars with spots… For some it’s quicker, for some it takes longer, for some it takes more effort, for some it takes less effort…
It would be sick if the NBD concept was just a challenge between skaters, like something that didn’t have that much importance in the industry.
I’d love to see ABDs by different people being paid (in terms of photos/videos published) even if it’s an ABD!
Kyron Davis, switch crooked grind, Lyon, published in Free, 2016. Ph: Nikwen.
Chris Jones, switch crooked grind, Lyon, 2019. Ph: Henry Kingsford.
Dan Magee:
I wish ABD was still adhered to in today’s skate culture, but it seems like it’s too hard to abide by it as a cultural rule. It’s so difficult for younger generations of skaters to have an in-depth knowledge of every video or every bit of coverage that’s dropped. On the flip side, it’s hard for someone like myself who is older to keep up with anything that’s come out in the era of Instagram edits and online content. I have to limit the amount of skate content I watch and I find myself watching a lot more videos from the ‘80s, ‘90s and ‘00s these days. If I’m filming and I go to a spot, I’ll often text someone else for trick confirmation, but there’s been a couple that have fallen through the cracks.
These days I think ABD applies more to the context of the spot and this is the aspect of it that we tried to stick to when filming the last video. If the spot is a gap or a ledge, cool: everyone is going to skate that spot in the same way.
Where things change are if it’s a spot that someone has made an effort to find or something somebody wouldn’t normally touch. Where ABDs and one-ups happen is where skaters are only doing it because they have a lack of imagination or are doing it for the kudos or Instagram likes.
To me personally, I see the stuff Chris Jones and Jake Harris skate as a good example: the spot in Kentish Town where Chris ducks under the bar and Jake follow-films him and he flips and backside flips the pavement bump to road.
That spot must have been blocked off with the barriers for ages but no one wanted to skate it until they saw that. Then all of sudden, people are going and trying to skate it the same way.  The key thing here is that the idea and execution of that spot was so perfect that there is really no need for anyone else to go there, except for those two, and do anything else. In that sense, it’s not just a trick that can be ABD; it can be an idea, a spot or a combination of any of the three.
Adding on to my previous thoughts, I feel like the real cultural theory here is that if something takes away from the purity of an idea, trick or spot, then that something is an ABD. You’re trying to paint over a picture that was already beautiful with something worse. An NBD is a good thing if it’s adding something to the cultural canon of skateboarding. That said this applies if it’s something you’re putting out with the aim of bringing something to that canon. If you’re ABDing for yourself, or your friends and the hype: all good. The ABD rules really only apply to ‘showcase skateboarding’ for want of a better term.
However, there are always exceptions.  If someone has done a banging back tail on the spot originally and there’s a chance to see Gino or Heath back tail the same spot, you’re going to throw away the rulebook.
Dane Burman, 50–50 grind, Barcelona, 2017. Ph: Gerard Riera.
Barney Page, 50–50 grind, Barcelona, 2017, released in
Etnies Marana Vulc video
, 2018.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  August 3, 2015
Converse One Star Tour: Germany
For the final leg of the Converse #onestarworldtour we entered Germany.
Signing at Pivot Cologne…
…Which quickly developed into a ‘push on’ 50-50 contest, Sage going for gold.
Mike Anderson hip flip at the Cologne demo. At this one everyone was just getting warmed up when torrential rain hit us.
Eli Reed decided to carry on anyway; switch 360 flip.
After another 10 hours on the bus, we finally hit the streets of Berlin, where David Stenstrom performed frontside ollies out of the ‘vertrock’.
A quick visit to Civilist.
Brophy was in town on a Fourstar trip, but managed to join us for the demo. 360flip the bump to jersey.
Brophy again: Backside tailslide.
Sage, 5050 from flat.
Mike giving it the ol’ barrel jump.
Sean Pablo, backside flip.
Raemers celebrates the end!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  August 26, 2020
7 Day Project: Rear Window
Daniel Clarke exploring
Rear Window
Photography and words by Joel Peck
It wasn’t until halfway through the week of shooting this project that I really acknowledged what it is that I’m trying to show here – what the underlying inspiration is. I got my hands on the previous issue of
Free
, issue 30, and in amongst it is a piece by Ted Barrow: ‘Mystery & the Market’. Here Barrow discusses the enigmatic power and allure that pros used to have, before the days of flaunting every aspect of one’s life on social media… Sure, he concludes that it’s actually always been the pros who do let their personality shine through who are most likely to become household favourites, but, nonetheless, it was this discussion of mystery that really struck a chord with me. It ‘clicked’ for me that this is the feeling I’m chasing and trying to portray here. Not the mystery of the individual but the mystery of place and what might be waiting to be discovered.
Daniel Pannemann, gap to 50-50 (footage
here
)
Like quite a substantial amount of people living in Berlin, I’m not German. I remember when I first visited this city back in 2007, still at school and living at home in the UK, I said to myself that I would move here as soon as I could. Whether I knew it at the time or not, I was obviously being sincere – I’ve been living here for going on seven years now and I think I’m here to stay. But when I think back to that first time here and the captivation I felt, I remember a certain, specific excitement. One that took me back to when I first got hooked on skating and further still, back to being a little kid going out with my neighbour on our bikes, pushing ourselves each day to ride further and in new directions. We had nothing in particular we were looking for, nothing tangible or concrete… It was purely our sense of intrigue and adventure that would motivate us each day to get out there and find something to get into.
Lukas Garbas, wallride transfer
Lukas Garbas, backside tailslide
So much of Berlin is hidden in its Hinterhöfer (backyards) – to such an extent that you could know every single street like the back of your hand but still only know just a fraction of the city as a whole. These private gardens and courtyards, intended only to be used by the residents or office workers of each building, make up the majority of the city and yet may as well not exist to most people… Out of sight, out of mind.
But in knowing that such a huge amount of the city is as good as unknown creates, for the curious minded, a massive sense of intrigue. This is the feeling that rushed over me on my first visit and again, later, when I moved here and started exploring. Of course this feeling of intrigue is relatable to anyone, anywhere – I just happen to be talking about my own experiences here in Berlin.
Dave Morgan, frontside rock ‘n’ roll
‘Finding a spot in the backyard of a building complex is like going through a thrift store and finding a nice pair of trousers or a great jacket. It is barely ever happening but it does happen from time to time. The rewarding feeling you get is quite similar.’ – Daniel Pannemann
Daniel Pannemann, ollie to frontside wallride
I feel that it is this mystery, this intrigue – the potential of the unknown and finding a hidden gem – that represents and sums up the thrill of skateboarding… Street skateboarding at least. It’s the needle in a haystack syndrome. Even when we’ve skated the same place for years on end, it is this little sense of ‘what if? What could still be hiding around that one unchecked corner?’ that keeps us inspired and searching.
Funnily enough my day job also has me constantly going in and out of Berlin’s backyards. I deliver food around the city on my bike and I’ve always related the joy and satisfaction of such a simple job to the freedom it allows and exercise it demands. Thinking about it now, however, I realise that there’s also a certain kind of voyeuristic or vicarious enjoyment playing a big part in it… I love having this ticket in to these hidden spaces and, if only for a minute or two each time, getting to observe people’s private lives.
Paulo Bórquez, Spanish grind transfer
Hitchcock’s film
Rear Window
is actually a very blunt, sad interpretation of our lives – marriage and loneliness being the underlying themes – but it’s this voyeuristic aspect of the film that makes it so cosy and compelling. When I’m at work it can almost feel like walking through Hitchcock’s set – the stories from each apartment in the front, side and rear buildings get funnelled out into the yard in the form of echoes and sights (apparently curtains just aren’t a thing here) – the courtyard acts as an amplifier, metaphorically and literally, and it’s here that all these people’s lives and stories merge together. Having the opportunity to observe and walk among these stories is really quite a privilege and allows one to get to know the city in a very intimate way.
I think this, too, plays a huge role in making street skateboarding so addictive. Just like the delivery job, skateboarding also acts as a ticket in to these otherwise shut-off places. What’s so interesting is that it’s a completely unofficial and illegal ticket, which should make it void, but somehow just having the reason is enough.
Michi Mackrodt, backside channel ollie
Click on the gallery below for more…
View Gallery | 7 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 12, 2015
Sacrosanct
Sam Beckett and friends travel through Europe to skate all the best street transitions or ‘natural trannies’ for
Sacrosanct
. Featuring Sam Beckett, Tim Zom, Jake Collins, Fernando Bramsmark, Alex Hallford and Julien Benoliel. Filmed and edited by Sam Bailey.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  July 31, 2023
Iannucci Made Me Hardcore
Illustration by James Jarvis. Words by Ted Barrow.
‘Something that is even trivial, or ephemeral, or even crassly commercial as a jeans label could be vested with a kind of meaning, a belief, a symbolism.
Hardcore means that you’re a believer, you believe in the truth of this thing, even if the truth of this thing is essentially inauthentic, it’s just more crap, but you’ve said that crap is worth something, in a kind of alchemical way. You turn shit into gold, that’s kind of what that means.’
–Mark Leckey, artist talk at Haus der Kunst, 2015.
Was it Napoleon Bonaparte who said, ‘to understand the man, you have to know what was happening in the world when he was twenty?’ The truism has survived in some form, regardless of attribution. I was twenty in 1996, and I saw the end of a once major cycle in skateboarding, and quickly saw the next take shape, leaving an indelible mark on my life, constituting the luminous lens through which I see the world to this day.
Let me explain: in 1996, the three best skate videos of that year — arguably the decade — were Toy Machine’s
Welcome to Hell
, World Industries’
Trilogy
, and Girl’s Mouse. Dan Wolfe released
Eastern Exposure 3
, 411
#19
, and Thrasher’s
Skate & Destroy
were also released that same year. In the US, it was a great year for skateboarding, perhaps the best year for US-released videos featuring American pros ever, the height of the nineties. The inevitable fusion of east coast plazas and west coast schoolyards all forged this powerful and stylish form of street skating, often set to absolute bangers in hip- hop. On this latter note, it’s nearly impossible to hear certain songs from that era and not be able to name the tricks, in sequence, that were edited to them. Consider Gino Iannucci skating to Method Man in 101’s
SNUFF
, Mike Carroll skating to a B-side Heiro single, ‘burnt’, in
Questionable
, or, hell, Gino’s whole part to that ‘Motherless child’ instrumental in
Trilogy
, where he does the hardflip at Lockwood at the beginning and ends the part with a nollie 180 switch back nosegrind shove it behind him on a table, a trick so mind-blowing that, in the same video, Joey Suriel remarks ‘oh shit’, as they’re re-watching the video so
far, before illicitly popping their tape into the editing dock, showing footage which was set to, of all things, a little-known rapper named Jay-Z’s song ‘Ain’t no n****’, (another song that will forever be connected to those skaters and that era).
A year that began with
Eastern Exposure 3
and ended with
Mouse
, in which both Biggie and Tupac died, 1996 seemed like the fullest expression of one style of music and skateboarding, and I was twenty. Then 1997 happened. What made the following year so different? Well, after Tom Penny swept Radlands in 1995, he and his cohorts had then moved to California. A Flip Industry section intimated things to come, a crack in the wall of the edifice that was the US skate industry. Towards the final few years of the last millennium, the shift towards European and Brazilian skateboarding was set on its inevitable course. Cliché skateboards was founded, the European video magazine franchise
Puzzle
began and, arguably, the ‘Euro gap’ made its debut in, of all places, Wembley in 1997.
After the manufactured and real coastal beefs and hard-knock posturing of the early nineties, hip-hop split in two directions after 1996: mainstream and independent. Puff Daddy and Bad Boy led the mainstream camp, with ostentatious shiny suits and simplified tracks about luxury, while the backpack mixtape movement became its own sub-industry that manifested in things like Brandon Turner skating to Company Flow in 1998’s
Guilty
. Not everyone enjoyed the bounties of this shift. In his book ‘The Tao of the Wu’, RZA describes the shift that happened in 1997: ‘The year 1997 was very important in the Wu-Tang Clan’s history. It was the year of 9 and 7, the year of Born God, 9 and 7 is 16, and 1 and 6 is 7. This was a rare year, rare chance. I felt like we were being called to reunite for the good of the world.’ But things did not go as planned. Wu-Tang released the double LP ‘Forever’, and the group imploded on an over-extended summer tour. His girlfriend left him for someone else and, as he describes, ‘on 9/7/97 I became humble. Ever since then, people have met a humble warrior named RZA.’; in skateboarding, Andrew Reynolds would soon acquire a bowl cut (like Tom Penny). Things would never be the same.
Rooted in the Greek word for home (
nostos
) and pain (
algos
), roughly translating to ‘homesickness’, nostalgia is what usually happens in periods of inevitable change. By the turn of the millennium, skateboarding had entered its own nostalgic phase, with the
On Video
series, premiering in 2000, that offered documentary- style stories on skateboarding’s history. The millennial fear of the future triggered a deep dive into the past. Videos took on an archival turn. We are mired in nostalgia today.
Around this time, in 1999, the artist Mark Leckey made a video called
Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore
, a montage of found footage that traces homosocial dance subcultures from the Wigan Casino, a legendary Northern Soul club, and then moves through the Casuals scene, to culminate in the early ’90s rave culture. The work offers an eerie parallel to skateboarding’s own development through the seventies, a link between the two subcultures that has
already been explored in these pages by Ben Powell
. Leckey’s re-mixed video montage echoes what we do in skateboarding videos, almost resembling Alien Workshop’s
Timecode
(1997), where unexpected imagery evokes a subconscious narrative. Mapping his own autobiography onto other people’s footage, Leckey captures how certain moments in videos, and how we experience them on our own, consti- tute a shared collective experience over time, linking skaters on different continents, over different eras.
But of course, there’s nostalgia and there’s nostalgia. There’s a healthy, accommodating nostalgia and that has to do with accepting that this never-ending search for home can teach us to be more compassionate. Call that ‘reflective nostalgia’: using the past as a backdrop to locate ourselves in the present. And then there’s the despair-filled, reactionary nostalgia that can’t accept things the way they are and wishes for things to return to the past. We also risk conservatism. Skateboarding is a form of home-coming, a way to find balance through leaning into the flux of inevitable change. Perhaps the truth in the dictum about what was happening in the world when someone is twenty is less about the specifics of, for me, 1996-97 (though it really was the best year), and more about the notion that at twenty years old, nostalgia creeps in. It can be good, or it can be bad. Whatever made you hardcore, be it Fiorucci or Iannucci, keep that close to your heart, but don’t stay stuck in the past. As the hours of bland khaki cargo- shorted skaters that filled the chaos sections of 411s will attest, not everyone was as cool as Gino in 1996.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  January 27, 2025
STROKE – Censorship Skateboards
Photography by Gerard Riera
Words by Mackenzie Eisenhour
Censorship 1.
the suppression or prohibition of any parts of books, films, news, etc. that are considered obscene, politically unacceptable, or a threat to security. 2. a Roberto Alemañ skateboard company.
Skateboarding and censorship; at face value, the two are complete opposites—oil and vinegar, black and white, Hawk and Hosoi. Skateboarding (to us) represents unfettered freedom. Freedom to roll wherever (and whatever wink) we deem rollable. Freedom to wear whatever we deem wearable. Freedom to say whatever we… Yeah, you get the picture. Censorship of any kind represents infringement on those freedoms. Case closed? Not really. In conjunction with a profile on Roberto Alemañ’s brand Censorship Skateboards—let’s take a trip through the history of censorship in skateboarding.
When have we, or our message, been suppressed through the years—either by official authorities and/or governments or by our own industry and media? Perhaps a better question would be when have we not been? Have we been deemed obscene, politically unacceptable, or a threat to security? I certainly hope so. Has this changed over time as skateboarding has become (arguably) more accepted by the mainstream (I think we can use the old Olympic Sport! marker here)? Let’s find out.
Adrian Fuentes, pole-jam melon, Ondo
Censorship Skateboards was created in 2020 by Roberto and his friend Alex Valero from their hometown of Matola, Spain. Censorship in skateboarding, meanwhile, can be traced back to the very beginnings of our pastime during the mid-to-late ‘50s and probably even earlier. Since the first set of roller-skate wheels were nailed to a 2-by-4, people from within our pastime as well as others from outside our realm have sought to sanitise us—to omit certain facets of skateboarding they deem unsavoury. At times, they have also declared our entire existence a non-starter.
Up front, let’s draw a line between the censorship or suppression of our message and the outright ban of our pastime. My first memories are of living in Oslo, Norway in the late ‘70s/early ‘80s. Skateboarding and even the ownership of a skateboard were banned by the Norwegian government from November of ’78 through May of ’89. That’s really less censorship and more just complete illegality.
Moving ahead a few years, for most people from my generation (skateboarding’s greatest generation of course, who started skating circa ’86-’92) the first thing that comes to mind at the mention of censorship is Steve Rocco’s famous line—”Censorship is Weak as Fuck.” That statement was tied directly to the 1990 release of Randy Colvin’s first pro model but also harkens to an entire era—circa ’90-’98—that was for better or for worse the golden age of uncensored skateboarding.
Roberto Alemañ, boardslide, Barcelona
Randy’s first pro board depicting a masturbating maiden (drawn by Marc McKee who in turn repurposed the image from Penthouse) would be the first time full-frontal nudity was silkscreened on a pro board and was a radical departure from the more tween friendly skulls, daggers, and dragons that had pervaded the ‘80s. The graphic was deemed so controversial that the boards were shipped to skate shops in sealed black plastic bags—adorned only with the famous yellow sticker declaring ‘Warning: Censorship is Weak as Fuck.’
When asked why he named his brand Censorship, Roberto referenced that exact board and moment in time: “We grew up skating in the late ‘80s and saw the huge impact of what Steve Rocco was doing with World Industries. All the graphics for Rocco brands (World, Blind, 101, Liberty, Bitch etc…) by McKee, Cliver and the other artists—we loved how subversive and countercultural it was.”
Miguel Bahamon, ride-on backside tailslide, Mollet
Roberto elaborates, “In 1990 the World Industries Randy Colvin ‘Censorship’ board was really something else. Just going into a skate shop and spotting a deck in a black blind bag with the yellow sticker—it broke the mould of what we knew about skateboarding graphics. Skate shops wouldn’t open the bag for you to see what was inside unless you bought it, and then boom—you get that graphic you have to even hide from your parents!”
“In some way that deck represented how we felt as skateboarders in the ‘90s.” adds Roberto. “Society saw us as some kind of delinquents, but at the same time we were so few that they didn’t really care about us. Rocco and all the early Dwindle brands influenced us a lot. Then Consolidated Skateboards did too, as I rode for them more than 20 years. Birdo was of the same mentality and a true genius with his graphic ideas. So ‘Censorship Skateboards’ felt like the right name for us—not just for the meaning but also as a kind of tribute.”
The Rocco era that Roberto seeks to pay tribute to provides the best case study on censorship. Tipper Gore had famously launched her quest to censor rap music in the US around the same time and censorship was a hot topic. Simultaneously, as Roberto mentioned, skateboarding had shrunk down to such a tiny number of skaters that only the dedicated few hardcore lifers stuck with it, and Rocco’s push to break all the old rules was exactly what that group wanted. It was “us” against “them” and Steve quickly convinced the remaining skateboarders he was not only one of ‘us’ but leading the charge against ‘them’.
Jechu Corvalán, backside 180 kickflip into the bank, Castelldefels
Steve was a genius at making himself somewhat of a false victim, especially when it meant for highly effective marketing. However, every time I have spoken to him about this era, he is quick to point out that he was attacked first by Powell Peralta and some of the other ‘big’ companies then known as ‘the Big 5’ (Powell Peralta, Santa Cruz, Vision, Tracker, and Independent). It is important to note here that he viewed their ultimate take down as an act of self-defence.
Regardless, the Colvin board set the template for his modus operandi over the next few years. Steve knew that no matter what he did, skaters would rally to his side if it appeared that he was being ‘censored’. So he set out to offend anyone or anything—multinational corporations, religious groups, the old guard skate industry, taboo racial stereotypes, drugs, alcohol, porn, Satanism—nothing was off limits.
After a string of controversial boards and ads including the Gabriel Rodriguez Jesus graphic, Jason Lee “Burger King” board, Natas exploding space shuttle “Oops” board and the notorious Satan on pentagram graphic, Jovantae Turner’s “Napping Negro”, Ronnie Bertino’s “Mr. Butts” deck that came with your first cigarette, and many more Steve quickly (and somewhat predictably) ran into not only outrage from the mainstream press and cease-and-desist letters from big business—he also began to face censorship from within our own industry.
Adrian Cuenca, backside 50-50 to slappy crooks, Granollers
By 1992,
Transworld SKATEboarding
, the largest skate magazine in the world at that point, was refusing to run his ads or demanding so many changes to those ads that Steve felt it amounted to censorship. In a stroke of ingenuity, he pulled whatever ad he had planned that month and instead ran a two-paged spread of text explaining his dilemma and asking
TWS
’s readers what he should do. The resounding answer to his multiple choice questionnaire—”Start your own magazine.” And so in the summer of ’92
Big Brother
magazine was born.
Quickly becoming the official magazine of skateboarding’s uncensored golden age,
Big Brother
promptly shocked skate media and mainstream media outlets at large with gratuitous full-frontal-nudity, articles like ‘How To Kill Yourself’ in issue three, bodily excretions of every type, and events like the annual Bong Olympics (RIP Captain Stoney). As a kid who grew up in that timeframe—even just reading up on the latest World/Blind Midwestern tour, where Rocco had paid some teenage girl to parade around the demo topless or offered up several hundred dollars for a single trick—it was hard not to see it as the coolest thing that had ever happened (of course as a dad today I can think of several reasons this might not always be the coolest thing in the world).
Miguel Bahamon, frontside 180, Sabadell
But this is also a good opportunity to explore the other side of the coin as far as censorship is concerned. By the mid-to-late ‘90s Rocco had ceased to be the underdog in the skate industry and was now himself the establishment. He became his own Big Five (World, Blind, 101, Plan B, Menace). When Simon Woodstock ran an ad in Big Brother for his new board brand Woodstock Skateboards around ’97, he decided to copy Rocco’s early ‘90s attack-style. His ad depicted a bent over Steve (holding a freestyle board) being sodomised by Devil Man (by then World’s defacto logo along with Flameboy and Wet Willy) with the words ‘Contract Negotiations’ printed above them.
How did Steve respond to Simon using his own strategy against him? He sued Simon and shut down the company. A very “George” move (As in George Powell from Rocco’s ‘Dear George’ ad). As Simon told me when I interviewed him in 2016, “Steve (Rocco) was like, ‘I know that people probably think this is a good ad Simon. I’m not mad at you. But you can’t do this. You attacked my brand.'” With the shoe on the other foot, Steve became the censor, even if still somewhat a reluctant one.
Adrian Fuentes, no-comply, Granollers
Irony comes in many flavours, but there is something deliciously special about the ’97 sale of
Big Brother
to
Hustler
’s parent company LFP (Larry Flynt Publishing). The first thing LFP—one of the world’s largest creators of pornography—did after acquiring the magazine was censor all the nudity within its pages. This was presumably done to increase circulation of the magazine as LFP actually wanted a died-in-wool skateboard magazine that could live on newsstands. They even added a giant ‘skateboarding’ header across the cover to drive the point home—essentially making it look like the
TWS
covers the mag had been created to counter.
Another incident worth visiting, if only to play devil’s advocate, would be the infamous Corey Duffel interview in
Big Brother
(Aug. 2001). If ever there was a moment in time where censorship might have helped, or at least just some adults in the room editing, this would have been it. This was the interview where a 15-year-old Corey was somewhat coaxed into using racist and homophobic language. It should be noted that Corey only did this after having his own sexuality attacked and questioned at the start of the interview. Corey has regretted this interview for decades and at the time it almost ended his career. However, the idea that all censorship is bad takes a bit of a backseat on this one. For the sake of all involved, the conversation a young and insecure Duffel had with an instigating Chris Nieratko should probably never have been printed.
Miguel Bahamon, heelflip, Barcelona
What of censorship in skateboarding since the turn of the ‘00s, into the ‘10s, and up to present day? Here’s Roberto’s thoughts: “In the ‘90s you could put almost any graphic on a skateboard, and there was no problem because nobody cared about us. But by the ‘00s, as skateboarding became more popular and mainstream brands started to take over the industry—many brands started to be more aseptic—trying not to offend anyone. Best-selling boards nowadays are mainly logo decks.”
Roberto also feels that where we ride our skateboards is key to whether we remain a counterculture or not: ‘We all know real skateboarding is on the streets, and we get banned from streets all the time. This is also a kind of (cultural) censorship, as what we do—our culture—comes from the streets and not from inside a skatepark. Despite what the Olympics and Street League believe, we can’t play on a square field like other sports. You have skateboarding brands now trying to have a clean aesthetic to be polite and politically correct to be accepted. But our creativity and the skateboarding that is cool and subversive comes from the streets.’
Roberto Alemañ, frontside 50-50 from the bench, Montmeló
Do we censor ourselves or is it those outside skateboarding doing it? Roberto replies, “I think both. We censor ourselves to be accepted. For the corporate companies skateboarding is better when done in skateparks, with a tracksuit, creating gold medallists. They don’t want to know about our reality, they just want the money of our industry, so they will censor what they don’t like about us; that rebel spirit out on the streets looking for spots and dealing with cops and security guards. So yes, definitely, a part of skateboarding is trying to be accepted by society—censoring themselves—and society will take skateboarding as a clean-cut sport leaving out the subversive and countercultural part of it.”
Steve Rocco ultimately sold his companies for many millions and rode off into the sunset during the mid ‘00s. His impact on the skateboard industry remains monumental, and is almost more prescient today. After skateboarding’s Olympic debut, soon to be followed up by Paris 2024—the rift between the uncensored counterculture and the safely sanitised and uniformed sports version of skateboarding grows wider by the day. Ultimately, it is the consumer who will decide which version will be passed on to the next generation. If you believe Roberto’s philosophy is the one for you, consider buying a Censorship Skateboards deck. Or if you believe another brand presents skateboarding in the right light, support them. Whatever you choose, choose wisely. Our future is in your hands.
Miguel Bahamon, ollie into the 3rd bank, Barcelona
After I interviewed Steve Rocco for
Skateboarder
magazine back in ’01 – while the issue and interview were already sent to the printer — Steve sent me a paragraph of text he had wanted included explaining his motivations for all that he had done up to that point in the skate industry. Since the issue was already a wrap, it never got used. I had completely forgotten about it until a few years ago when I was looking through old files. As it has never been printed anywhere (and also because I still need to fill some space), here is an exclusive letter from Steve (circa ’01) straight to the pages of
Free Skate Mag
.
Note: I haven’t censored a word.
A Letter from Steve Rocco:
Skateboarding wasn’t always like this. It was serious. Or at the time it just seemed that way. To me, serious is when someone says ‘no’ to something, anything. Can I do a graphic like this, a board this shape, an ad without products? No, no and no. I hate that word. and all those no’s weren’t just for me they were for all pro skaters. In 1987, there were no skater-owned companies.  Even icons like Tony Hawk couldn’t just walk in and do the ad, graphic or tour he wanted. We were to be seen and heard for our skating skills yet not listened to in deciding board graphics. I was not a happy camper. And then I got fired.
When I started the company (World Industries) I quickly noticed it wasn’t like a regular job in which the boss tells you what to do and you just do it. There was no boss and no money to hire one. Finally this little voice in my head says, ‘What about me?’  You know the little voice I’m talking about. The one your parents and teachers tell to shut up all the time. The one that has all the witty things to say after someone who insults you walks away. The one that tells you if you kickflip some fifty-foot death gap and survive you’ll have fame, fortune and women. Yeah that’s the one. Mine had been bottled up for years and now he not only wanted out but he wanted to be in charge. So, like a genie in a bottle, my little voice came out and there was no one there to put it back. Soon my otherwise ridiculous ideas became ads, graphics and products that not only defied logic and common sense but turned the industry upside down. Rodney (Mullen) would often try to reason with me but the little voice was in charge now and Rodney was the last person he wanted to hear from.
One of the great things about having your own company is sharing with your friends. My friends just happened to be Mark Gonzales and Natas Kaupas. So we started Blind with Mark and 101 with Natas. Of course they had little voices of their own which were even more demented than mine. They were so excited because now they could do some pretty crazy shit—things that could have never been skate graphics had there been adult supervision.
Natas did a board with the space shuttle blowing up that said ‘Oops’. Gonz once hand-painted hundreds of individual boards. We had boards that had free cigarettes, pictures of naked ladies, crack pipes, copyright infringement, lottery tickets and even political commentary. Our ads were even more rebellious. We ridiculed everything under the sun, especially ourselves. Which at the time was unheard of for a skate company. It was nothing less than complete unbridled mayhem the likes of which will probably never be seen again. Surely these were the best of times.
As time passed things became more complicated. We were not only competing against big non-skater owned companies but skater-owned ones as well. And soon after that, former riders left to do their own thing. It got biblical for a while, brother against brother all fighting for a piece of the proverbial skateboard pie. But time heals and in recent years there has been a prevailing peace. Which is good, I guess, if you like that sort of thing. But it felt as if my job was done.
All I ever wanted from the start was to give the skaters a voice and now they have one. When skaters talk people listen. And that my friends, has finally made me a happy camper.
—Steve Rocco (2001)
• Learn more about Steve Rocco by watching the ’07 documentary
The Man Who Souled The World
or read my interview (with the same title) from the Jan. 2002 issue of
Skateboarder
magazine (on my site
deadhippie.net
).
• Learn more about Censorship Skateboards by checking their site:
censorshipskateboards.com
and Insta:
@censorshipskateboards.
• Read more about controversial skate graphics in my book
1000 Skateboards
(2023 by Rizzoli) in bookstores, skate shops, and on the interwebs now.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  October 13, 2022
Full Circle – The Article
Tommi Björk, backside noseblunt, Schmiedrued
Photography Sam Ashley.
Words Arthur Derrien.
Just got back from 10 days of driving around Switzerland with the crew we selected to film for
our Vans collab edit
, and I can only equate the state I’m in to the feeling of clumsily staggering out of a club, completely bewildered that it’s fully daylight out in the real world. What even happened in that time warp? How did that fly by so quickly? The memories you have are great ones, but they can’t quite be pieced together in a chronological or even remotely linear fashion. It’s just flashes. You’re completely frazzled, there’s no doubt about that, but there’s also a deep sense of calm that comes over you as you accept the extortionate charge on your Uber home. It’s over. There’s nothing left to chase. All you can do is wait for the hangover to kick in, which in the case of this trip is probably more of an emotional one than a booze induced one. Although the fact that Bobaj (our Swiss filmer and selfless legend of a tour guide) and myself did experience exactly what I described above on our last night/morning in Zurich might explain my lingering headache… But I think we’ll get to that later.
*****
Notis Aggelis, crooked grind, Geneva
‘Krrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr’. How the fuck is anyone even considering standing on their skateboard after all that cheese? What’s wrong with these people! It’s about midnight on day seven, I think, and as we finally manage to tear ourselves away from the chairs of the fondue restaurant we’ve been sessioning for the past two hours we hear Notis having an actual session of the four wheeled kind on a long three-stair directly opposite where we were eating. And by ‘long’ what I mean is that to get to the end of it and gap out past the three he was charging towards these crooked grinds like a Busenitz chased by hyenas. Pretty certain I’ve never seen anyone’s trucks travel that fast across any kind of ledge. We all instantly forget the mountain of Gruyere we’ve just ingested and start waxing frantically. Bins get moved, the Cave Valaisanne’s staff finish locking up to come join the hype train, and before we know it it’s decided that this single would actually be converted into a line. Bobaj is clearly running on emergency energy and looks more and more like he could collapse with every push, whilst Jon Wolf, our other filmer (who is now completely delirious) is overheard saying, ‘if this wasn’t so fun this would be horrible.’ A line that still cracks me up every time I think about it, but also isn’t even remotely close to being the most fried thing he said on this trip.
I’d say that was the turning point. On adventures like these there’s always a moment when everyone just starts to let go. You give up on keeping track of what day of the week it is, you forget what was landed yesterday, and the day before, and the day before, and accept that you can’t keep up with whether they speak German or French in the Swiss city you’re visiting (or in Oscar Candon’s case which city that even is). Suddenly it was all just one big blob of memory, full of fluffy green mountains, quaint cottages, turquoise lakes so fluorescent they almost look radioactive, frantic, infectious laughs and unbelievable skate spots. Because yeah, as you can probably tell from the photos, Switzerland possesses an endless amount of skateable terrain of the absolute highest calibre. I know it’s shameful but the abundance of banks and natural transitions was such that even though skating was all we cared about at that specific point in time, it became hard not to get desensitised and remember that 15-foot oververt quarterpipes don’t usually live in the streets.
This shift was also marked by what I can only describe as ‘the sip too many’; AKA the one that makes you wonder if the delicious
Quöllfrisch
beer cans you’ve been drinking all week were in fact just filled with the spring water drawn on their label; the sip that makes you begin to imagine what life might look like if you were the cheeky little legend drawn in front of the Alps on that same illustration; if rather than being obsessed with kickflips all you cared about was yodelling and bopping around valleys in traditional Swiss attire, a Bernese mountain dog and a cow as your sole companions…
I think the only thing able to snap me back into the present moment at that stage was a loud voice behind me asking ‘where’s my board? I might plant a seed!’ Pfeeew, I was back in the room. Only now I was giggling at the fact that I’d fully accepted that trying to film a trick would no longer be referred to ‘getting that bread’ but ‘planting a seed’, and that in the process of growing this forest each and every one of my easily excitable travel buddies had slowly but surely begun to lose their tiny minds in unison.
*****
Notis Aggelis, gap to lipslide, Winterthur
‘POWER, RESPECT, UNITY, FRIENDSHIP, PROPERTY, INSANITY… NICO!’ It’s about 10am and we’re sat outside the hotel a couple of days after me
joining the trip, and Notis and Oscar, the original and only two members of the ‘Nico Team’ are looking deep into each other’s eyes, united by their love for cigarettes, palms cupped as they prepare for their hundredth slogan shouting embrace of the week. I give them a look of ‘please it’s way too early for this shit’, which is greeted by a stern reminder that ‘Nico is more than a brand, it’s a movement’, or something along those lines. I nod, smile and refrain from pointing out that it kinda sounds like some weird white supremacist rallying cry to not spoil their fun. They’ve been on the road for a bit longer than me so I just accept that they’re probably just at a slightly more advanced stage of their rapidly developing insanity.
Oscar Candon, switch frontside 5-0 to regs, Zurich
*****
Helena Long, wallie to backside lipslide, Geneva
‘Okay so what happened last night – that absolutely cannot happen again. You hear me? People on the second floor complained about you this morning and I watched the CCTV footage… This is your one and only warning. Pass it on.’
First breakfast of the trip; first conversation of the day with a human being. I bet deep down our gracious hotel manager also found it hilarious that Tania Cruz was waddling around the corridor at 2am covered in a white towel making ghost noises as Helena Long made the lights flicker… I really want to show him Tommi Björk’s angle of the shenanigans but resist the urge. ‘Sorry, we got a bit carried away’, I say instead. ‘I promise this won’t happen again.’ And it didn’t. Not our fault his hotel was haunted though.
As I nibble on the Emmental that poked out of my sweaty croissant I try to think back to the events of the previous day, piecing together what I remember in hope of making sense of why everyone was so hysterical by the time we rocked up at the hotel. Ah yes… That was the 15-clip day. The one where our TM could be spotted doing endless laps of the final spot on a child’s lost scooter, and Jon set up a midnight street office outside Domino’s to capture footage and recharge his batteries. The session that ended with us running up Tina Turner’s ‘Simply The Best’ and Eminem’s ‘Lose Yourself’ full blast on the boom about 70 times each in hope that Simon Zuzic would complete his Muska day as a drop kicked in. It’s also the point when I realised that there was no such thing as a Muska day on this trip, that it was actually completely normal for some of these guys to get several minutes of footage, at several spots, in less than 24 hours.
Simon Zuzic, backside bigspin, Basel
*****
Arno Wagner, trampoline bounce to kickflip, Geneva
‘All I want to do is go on trips with my friends. What am I even going to do when I can no longer film skating?’
This is Jon Wolf entering the final stage of tour dementia. The stage when you become the tour, and can’t imagine life outside of it. We’re driving back from Geneva to Zurich on the last day. Last night his roommate’s snoring led him to spend a few hours in his bathtub, and later on attempt to sleep in the very car we were sitting in. The stream of consciousness he’s subjecting me and Arno Wagner to is endless, unfiltered, and clearly a coping mechanism to somehow keep his eyes open and focussed on the road. He’s broken… A puddle. The one thing he desperately needs is to not be on tour yet the closer the prospect of that grows, the less he can picture life beyond the tour.
‘Now he’s fully lost it’ I think to myself as he utters ‘I guess I’ll just be dead’, as if it was a perfectly logical conclusion to the initial question he’d just asked himself. I start to wonder how deeply you’d have to immerse yourself into skateboarding neverland for there to actually be no coming back… I tell myself I must be the only remaining rational thinker in the car.
Fast forward eight hours and I’m on one knee signing Oscar and Notis’ imaginary contract to become the chairman of Nico. Never smoked a ciggy in my life, now officially part of the ‘Nico Team’. Last ounce of sanity just went straight out the window.
Schianti Lepori, pole-jam, Aarau
*****
One of the things I failed to mention earlier when I brought up mine and Bobaj’s confused crawl out of that dingy Zurich club (thinking it was 2am and not 6am), is that this bizarre combination of confusion and serenity
that enveloped me, and helped me come to terms with the end of our Swiss pilgrimage, was that it was not exactly shared by my stumbling companion. As I pulled him out of our ride home and attempted to steer him towards the elevator, he spotted two members of our delegation sitting outside the hotel on the floor… Eye contact was made, could tell he was trying to tell something, but it’s not until we the ping of the elevator that he managed to free himself from my stabilising underarm grip and managed to spurt out the words: ‘Ciig… Cigarettes. One more cigarette.’ He just needed more. And I’m not just talking about him proving his legitimacy as a member of the ‘Nico Team’. For people like Bobaj the trip never really ends. He filmed 10 hours a day every day, had dozens of spots lined up for us in every city, kept the WhatsApp group alive even after we’d made it all home, etc. But most importantly, he will already be preparing for the next mission. Just like Jon who came straight from a TWO-WEEK Samurai Safari camping trip, and just like everyone else who took part in this excursion. This is their life. Going on a proper skate trip for the first time in years was ridiculously fun, but it also absolutely battered me. Seeing some of our favourite skaters in shoes with red dots still feels a bit surreal, but I definitely got a good reminder of who we really owe this shit to. If it wasn’t for this ever-growing army of ridiculously dedicated European skaters, filmers and photographers ‘planting seeds’ for the mag all year around there would be no Free, so this one goes out to all of you! Thank you.
Jordan Thackeray, taildrop, Bern
Click through the Gallery below for more of Sam Ashley’s shots from the trip:
View Gallery | 20 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 21, 2023
Parts of the Whole: a Chris Jones Interview
Ollie up then ollie, London
Chris Jones should be no stranger to readers.
His powerful and unique take on skateboarding has graced the pages of the mag more than once – and for good reason. Managing an international skate career whilst doing a qualification requires a certain degree of character, and doing so whilst remaining legit and humble makes it all the more impressive.
I tracked Chris down for an early morning coffee in between academic deadlines, moving house and preparing for a skate trip to Sicily. Our shared interest in mental health and skateboarding inevitably coloured our chat, which meandered through Chris’ counsellor training, his thoughts on the intersection of skateboarding and mental health and the challenges navigating this overlap might present.
Photography by James Griffiths
Interview by Alex Irvine
Let’s start with something specific, maybe that’s a good way to do it? See where it ends up? We’ve already begun talking about mental health and skateboarding, it seems like that might be a kind of fruitful place to start… How have you ended up being interested in mental health?
Chris Jones: Yeah, well, that’s a good question. It’s quite a big question. Maybe it’s just easier to speak a little bit about the process which led me to end up where I am today. I’ve had an interest in psychology since I was younger, I studied it at A-Level and originally, I wanted to go to university to study psychology but my tutor at the time told me there was no point unless I wanted to become a teacher, which I didn’t. In my early twenties then I had some free time and felt like volunteering would be a good use of that time, and then I had my first experience of doing real volunteering when I went to Palestine and volunteered for
SkatePal
in 2014. That kickstarted me doing a bit more volunteering when I got back. I did a bunch of volunteering at various places. That developed into an interest in wanting to work more in the helping sector. I originally wanted to do this social work Master’s degree, but, after having some conversations with some of my friends’ parents – who were social workers – they kind of talked me out
of it.
It was not too long after that, that I started struggling with my own mental health, which was a really difficult thing to get through. What helped me get through that, was being in my own therapy, after experiencing it first-hand, of it working and feeling the benefits, it led to an interest in counselling and therapy. After that, I started an introduction course and it kind of just went from that really. I never really started it with the definitive idea of wanting to become a counsellor. It was kind of like a stage-by-stage process, doing the introduction course, doing the certificate; taking my time with them, really ensuring it’s something I’m interested in. I’m coming towards the end of my diploma now, I’ve got a placement, I’m seeing clients… It’s been an organic development. There wasn’t really ever a clear moment where I was like, I want to do this.
Gap to backside 50-50, London. Ph. Sam Ashley
I think it’s difficult, isn’t it, to get the experience [in order] to know if you want to do it or not?
Yeah. I think one of the things was the experience I gained volunteering at
The Listening Place
, which led me to deciding to do the diploma, because I started volunteering there around the time when I started my certificate. I wanted to have that experience to decide whether or not it was something I wanted to do. I think it was that experience which gave me the confidence to think that this was maybe something I could actually do.
I think it can be quite an abstract concept up until that point, can’t it? Have you talked much about volunteering at The Listening Place?
It’s not something I’ve talked a lot about. I’ve only chatted with other friends about it that are also interested in training to become counsellors. It’s an amazing organisation and a great opportunity to get some practical experience. But yeah, it’s not something I’ve talked loads about, really. And I’m not really sure why that is. Aside from the fact that the work is confidential, I think it’s just something I’d try to leave at the door when I’d leave my shift. Maybe in some ways it kind of helped me not to carry some of the weight of the work with me.
Part of the thing that drew me to wanting to volunteer there as well was that it was a face-to-face service. There are a lot of mental health support organisations that work online, texting services and stuff. I was interested in having that time with visitors to build a bit of a relationship and work with the same people. The idea of maybe seeing different people, texting or speaking to different people on the phone… I think I liked the idea of it being a bit more consistent.
One of the questions that came back to me when people would ask me about it, would be, ‘Why do you want to go spend your Wednesdays to see some people who want to talk about suicide? It’s quite a heavy thing to want to do…’ And, yeah, it’s a good question. I think there’s a lot of anxiety for people when you tell people you’re going to be listening to someone talk about wanting to kill themselves, but [when] you’re just in the space with someone… I don’t know how to describe it…
I think you realise how important services like that are. With such long waiting times for people to see therapists and stuff, it’s so crucial to have a service like that. It slots in that space and it’s rare. That was one thing which kept me there and I would have loved to have stayed there for longer, but with the commitments of my course I had to take a break from it, but I would definitely love to go back. I think, to have those spaces where people can talk so openly about suicide…
…it’s quite normalising, isn’t it? In my experience it never really felt awkward…
That’s the thing, I mean, it’s quite likely that most people, at some point in their life, will have a suicidal thought in some shape or form. I think it’s so important to have those spaces which normalise those conversations. It’s just so helpful, you know, and I feel like if people were able to speak openly about that it could help, perhaps prevent people from following through with the suicide. It’s such a taboo in our society.
Chris Jones, Sicily, 2023. Ph. James Griffiths
What about with your experiences counselling? How has it been?
It’s different because as opposed to just listening, like I would do at TLP, as a trainee counsellor now I have a lot more responsibility, so I can only work with a certain client base and there’s perhaps less that I’m able to work with. It’s also important for me to be aware of that as well, in knowing what my limitations are as a trainee. It’s an interesting process, training to become a counsellor, I’ve learned a lot about myself, which is an amazing process to go through. It’s very rare that you can have those environments where you can explore how you’re interacting with people and understand the way you communicate, the things that are going on beneath the surface that maybe you weren’t as conscious of before. It’s made me aware of a lot of things that perhaps I was unaware of previously; it’s that self-reflective side of it, which has been an interesting experience.
Has that insight had an impact on your skateboard career in any way?
Naturally, I think it’s impacted numerous things, you know, my relationships… It can’t not, right? It becomes harder to shut out some of the things that are contributing to certain things, like it’s harder, I guess, to be fake in some ways. Not like I was being fake before but more just like, to acknowledge when something’s happening rather than to pretend it isn’t.
Like facing up to things?
Yeah, and just like when there’s certain things happening with your relationships and friendships and stuff, being able to address them rather than avoid them. For me anyway, I think I can rely on avoidance as a bit of a coping strategy. Naturally, there’s been an impact of that kind of self-awareness with skating, it’s been interesting because, now that I’ve started getting more experience – and like this sounds so privileged and I’m aware of it – but, like, now I’m working again, when I go away on skate trips, I’m just appreciating that opportunity. I’m enjoying it so much. I always enjoyed it, but I think I just feel more motivated again. It’s just like when you have to work a proper job again, coming back to it, you’re like, ‘Oh, shit this opportunity with skating is incredible!’ – I want to make the most of this whilst I still have that opportunity. I feel like it’s created a bit more balance. I’ve always found that when I’ve got a bit more balance in my life I can enjoy things a bit more and I feel like it’s kind of had that impact with skating. It lets me enjoy it more again.
Kickflip, London
So, counselling has a place alongside skateboarding and in the future then?
I mean, I don’t really have long term plans or expectations. I’m taking it one step at a time really. And, right now, I’m just focusing on finishing my course and trying to skate as much as I can. In the short term, I’d like to at least maintain a placement and maybe do some continuous professional development, keep my practise up to date, developing and learning and then to see what happens really… See how things pan out.
I don’t know whether I’m suited ever to working full-time as a counsellor, like a being in a therapy room from 9:00 to 5:00, Monday to Friday; I don’t think it’s ever really going to be suited to me, so I’m kind of interested in finding some balance within that as well. I don’t know what that looks like at the moment. There’s some courses about conducting therapy outside like Wilderness Therapy. I’m really interested in that sort of thing; I’m interested in other forms and methods in which therapy can be delivered.
What do you think that interest stems from?
I think just being a skateboarder, having that freedom and being outside all time and just like having other interests, you know? I enjoy walking and going on hikes and stuff. It’s kind of just looking at how I might bring my other interests in, to make the job a little bit more long-lasting. I imagine if I had to just work full-time in a counselling room, I’d probably burn out. I think I need a bit more variation and changes in the environment. If I’m going to have to work full-time for the rest of my life, I’d like to make it as enjoyable as I possibly can.
What about the intersection between mental health and skateboarding? Is that interesting to you?
I find it really interesting, yeah, like, actually we just finished a piece of research from my course and one of the things I was interested in was looking at ways in which therapy can be integrated with skateboarding. Originally, I wanted to conduct a kind of skate workshop, to try and look at a way in which my practise – which is integrative – might work with skateboarding; looking at how the two can complement each other. Due to limitations, I ended up just looking at the psychological benefits of skateboarding. But yeah, I feel like there’s a space for skateboarding and counselling to come together.
Do you think skateboarding might be beneficial for some people’s mental health?
I mean, skateboarding’s been hugely beneficial for my mental health. I mean, physical exercise in general… I think there’s so much out there that proves this, the mind-body link has been something that people have been aware of for years, right? For centuries people have talked about treating the person as a whole. More recently, there’s a book by Bessel van der Kolk,
The Body Keeps the Score
, and Gabor Maté, in his book
When the Body Says No
, [which suggest] that the body can help our minds. I think skateboarding offers that kind of opportunity, as well as helping people. I think [with] any kind of physical practise or somatic practise you can access more in a person if you’re kind of tapping into that alongside talking therapies.
Nose manual to 50-50, London
Do you think there’s a psychological component to skateboarding, that’s beneficial as well?
I think it’s both. It’s impossible for it not to be psychological, right? That’s what I’m saying. It’s like the two are interconnected – you can’t separate the two. There are so many psychological benefits from the physical, but also, you know, there is a physical benefit as well. But I guess it’s perhaps the emotions and things you can access through working with the body too. There’s some work from neuroscientist Antonio Damasio that explains this way more clearly than I can.
I suppose I was wondering about maybe like a point of difference between some [other] physical practises, let’s say, yogic practise or say, rugby, for mental health might be quite different. I wonder if you think there’s anything specific about skateboarding that might have a unique effect?
Yeah, that’s something which I’m not entirely sure about. People talk about skateboarding having benefits for things like self-esteem, confidence, resilience perhaps, and I guess that you could look at some of those things that people talked about, look at how that can be worked with alongside, perhaps like a form of therapy… I guess skateboarding is also a way to get people engaged, I think it can be hard for some people to talk about emotions, to describe them and to have that lan-guage. And there is research to suggest that physical activities like yoga can help people access some of those modes or tap into them; I’m wondering if skateboarding would be used in the same way. I’m not really sure about the uniqueness of skateboarding as it shares so many similarities with other activ-ities such as dance, perhaps, but I imagine there’s something unique that skateboarding could offer. I’d love to learn more about it and do some more research around that after I finish my course; it’s something I’m curious about.
Before we started you spoke about interviews coming up and how you end up talking about a lot of the same kind of subjects… Do you feel like skateboarding and mental health is an unlikely marriage? Where do you think interviews like this sit with people?
I’m not sure. It’s interesting because every time I get interviewed, it’s what everyone wants to speak to me about. I’m conscious that, for some people, these are two things that you might want to keep very separate. You know, you want to go and have your therapy, see your therapist and then you go skate and maybe when you pick up a skate magazine you just want to read about baggy trousers and not mental health. Maybe you want to keep those two things apart. I guess because I’m doing this training and I’ve talked openly about my mental health, I’m naturally someone to talk to about mental health within skateboarding, but it may not always be something I want to talk about. I also sometimes feel it’s important to have some separation between the two. It’s kind of nice just to have that space where I can switch off from some of that stuff as well and go skate and not think too much about psychology or mental health. It’s quite nice to have those boundaries but it is difficult to keep the two separate, especially when you’ve got to do an interview. Despite this, I am interested that people are looking at ways of integrating skateboarding and counselling and, like I said earlier, it’s something I would be quite interested in doing at some point. Maybe if there’s a way of me also integrating it, so it could also be something I could incorporate, like workshops or something to help with certain things.
It sounds like quite an uncomfortable position to be in, but here you are in it…
Yeah. And sometimes it can be a bit uncomfortable.
Manual, London
Part of the contract to engage as a mental health provider, be it, counselling, psychology, psychotherapy, whatever, there are clearly defined boundaries, in terms of when your work is appropriate and ethical, and when it’s not. Skateboarding is traditionally not very kind of rule orientated, does that require a different approach or does it need to bend? Or are we talking about a new approach altogether?
This is the thing, right? I don’t know how therapeutic it would be. Containment and boundaries are so, so important in therapy. If you’re having a group, say a skate workshop, with a bunch of people that may just see each other down the skatepark, maintaining things like confidentiality, this is where I think more thought needs to go into it. When it would come to designing something like that, you need to take all that stuff into consideration.
When I started doing the diploma I was really like, ‘I want to keep the counselling stuff very separate actually from my skating stuff’ and here I am talking about trying to think of ways of blending the two together. I’m still figur-
ing things out and what I want to do; there’s almost a part of me wanting to bring the two together and another part wanting to keep the two things a bit more separate. I sometimes feel like I’m being an artist who’s a skater that doesn’t want to be like a skate artist, they want to be an artist in their own right.
Not a skounsellor.
I don’t want to be a skounsellor. I’d like to get my qualification and then come back and figure out a way of maybe integrating the two. I think, right now, for me it’s way too early on to try and think of that. So, I’m about to contradict pretty much everything I’ve said so far, I think I’m very much looking at trying do this stuff separately at the moment but it’s almost impossible to do that, really, to keep them both completely separate, ‘cause you know when you’re having an interview, when you know people ask you what you’re doing, you can’t not talk about what it is you’re actually doing or thinking. Even in my counselling, when it comes to looking at who I am and what’s going on, skateboarding comes into it. Yeah, it’s a learning curve as well, as far as, how much I want the two worlds to come together at times.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  April 28, 2021
Memory Screen: Sants
Okay so long story short Barcelona’s iconic train station spot is about to get torn down and the locals are in talks with the council to restore the upper section of the spot to it’s original state when it gets rebuilt (think
Enrique in Rodney vs Daewon 2
when it still had the 6 pink granite tables and the wooden benches). Sneep was kind enough to put together a Memory Screen compiling our favourite clips from that incarnation of the plaza and below we’ve got an interview with Marcos Lozano about where exactly the
SNT4EVER
association is at with all this, but before you get stuck in PLEASE just take a second to
sign their petition
.
Special thanks to Roger Ferrero for digging through his archive to supply these photos and to Enrique Mayor, Pablo Lorenzo, Enrique Lorenzo, Anthony Claravall and all the filmers and skaters that contributed to this gorgeous spot’s history.
When did you guys realise that the spot as we know it might be under threat?
So the Plaça dels Paisos Catalans, better known as Sants, has been under threat for almost 15 years. I actually remember the first sign that the council stuck in the middle of the plaza where it said that the high-speed train was going to come to the train station, right next to the plaza, and would connect Barcelona with the rest of Europe. That’s when all the locals first started to think that they might demolish the plaza. But then the 2008 crisis destroyed the whole Spanish economy and quickly we realised that things would drag on quite some years since. We knew there wasn’t much money to continue with with constructions they’d planned, plus everybody kind of knows that in Spain what is said by politicians doesn’t always get done.
The main problem with Sants is that, since the plaza is next to the train station, the ownership of the space is shared between the city of Barcelona and the national train company, ADIF. So nobody is taking care of the plaza because neither of the two entities wants to assume the responsibility of maintaining it. Neither of them want to waste budget on a space that they know sooner or later will have to be remodelled due to the high speed railway track construction. The whole situation between the two entities became extra apparent when we realised that nobody was investing a dime to replace any of the original architecture, (so around the time the last wooden bench in the plaza became the classic wooden hubba), which was weird for us because for years before that every time something was used/moved to skate, it would replaced within a few months. So predictably, little by little the plaza has became more and more damaged to the point where almost none of the original benches were even skatable anymore, with cracks on the ledges and massive cracks on the tiles. Moreover, on top of the plaza being damaged, eight years ago ADIF decided to build these emergency exits for the train station right in the middle of the plaza (the crazy metal containers that make no sense and are still there today). But to build them, ADIF drilled parts of the ground using heavy machines and trucks, which completely ruined the granite tiles and made a part of the plaza completely unskatable, like the old fountains that were used as a manny pad.
Everybody thought that was the end of Sants… And to make matters worse when the work was done and the fences removed, they decided to just chuck concrete that was not even smoothed across half of the plaza in order to fix the cracked tiles. So the whole plaza now literally looks like the result of systematic bombing.
At that point it became pretty clear that Sants was never going to be the same, but we could not just give up the spot like that, so we started to build little ledges here and there with the OGs from the plaza. Marcos Gomez in particular had a lot to do with keeping the spot alive then…
2006. Photo: Roger Ferrero.
So anyway that situation lasted until about four years ago, when one afternoon all the ledges, including the new ones built and the original remaining ones were fenced up and the next day all gone, which made it clear that Sants was no longer a plaza that was taken into consideration for the city’s needs and its urban planning, but a junkyard for the train company. The metal roof structure was the only thing left to show that the space was once Sants.
But the worst was not even that… The worst came a few years ago. One afternoon we arrived at the plaza and they were fencing the few original benches that were still standing. That day was undoubtedly the worst day in the history of Sants, it was official: no one was taking care of that place and it was now officially a junkyard …. Just a giant concrete esplanade in front of the station, with only the roof, the low to high and the wooden bench Raúl cab flips remaining from the original plan.
Despite all that though, it was still our spot. The place we could go every day of the week without hitting anyone up and we’d know our friends would be there. You can skate in peace and do whatever you want… We even barbecue there in San Juan (mid-summer party in Spain)! Ha ha.
What’s interesting is that now that we are involved in the redesign process and doing interviews with the council, they themselves have told us that they have let us use the space because we make it safer. You know what train stations can be like… If it hadn’t been for us, that place right now would be like a screenshot from Resident Evil. It would just be full of junkies and thieves and no one would want to go at night as there’s hardly any lighting.
Tell us about the SNT4EVER association you’ve formed, who’s involved, what’s its purpose, etc.
SNT4EVER is a non-profit organization currently formed of over 250 members, to whom we will always be eternally grateful. Our objective is saving the plaza by opening up a dialogue between the city council, the neighbours and the skaters of the plaza. The board of directors is made up of Marcos Lozano, Marcos Alvarez and Juan Gaminde (President, secretary and treasurer respectively) but in general it is open to anyone who wants to collaborate. In fact, on our
website
there is a section of thanks to all the people who have helped us in the short time that we have been operating: photographers, designers, shops, people who have made renders with proposals for a new space, graffiti artists and other collaborators who at one point or another have lent a hand.
The association was formed just before Christmas when the wall with the iconic window into the plaza was torn down. It was something like action-reaction… Without thinking much about it, we created the association and set the two key objectives: save the plaza and start teaching the Sants neighbourhood locals that skateboarding is much more than kids with speakers and beers.
Regarding the first objective: we are now in contact with the council and fully included in the process of remodelling the surroundings of the station. This process involves many other entities and neighbourhood associations and it’s very good that many there are young people and that they skate in the area (something we did not really expect). And in theory the idea is that the council will collect all of the suggestions of the neighbours and make a proposal to the ADIF train company, which is the one that has the power to decide what will happen to the plaza. This week, on April 22nd, we have a meeting with architects to explain our point of view on how the possibility of creating a multipurpose space is possible and beneficial for everyone, as we’ve already seen in many other cities such as Malmö, Lyon, Paris, CPH, London, etc. In short, you have to make them understand that we do not want a single-use space like a skatepark in the middle of the city, which is what they have been doing in Barcelona recently… They’ve been shutting down spots and just building ramp skateparks on the outskirts to appease us. In all these meetings we present loads of documents based on the theories of multipurpose space in which neighbours, boys, girls, young people and elderly people can live together in the same space without fear. But this point is still very difficult for some people to understand. We are currently building on
the chasing the spot webbinar: cities for people and tactical urbanism
… These guys are the future! Most of the ideas that we put to the council come from there.
Gustav Eden
and all these guys know what’s up!
And the people we’ve been in contact with at the council have told us that it is something that Barcelona wants to do as well, reduce the volume of cars in the city, and make the city for the people… And more now than ever with the Covid thing! It can’t be that sad that suddenly now everyone wants to flee from Barcelona.
As for the second objective of the association, to make skateboarding’s potential known to people in neighbourhood: I’m actually PE teacher and I recently caught wind of something the Sants schools have been trying to implement… Every other Friday they’ve been blocking the streets in front of the schools to create safe spaces for children; because of course here you leave the school and you have a street that a thousand cars drive through. That is something that the schools wanted to change and a group of mothers began to go down with their daughters who skated at the plaza and Lozano spoke to them about potentially organising an event with the school, during that time when the street would be closed. It seemed like a good idea to them so a few of us from the plaza went: Pepe, Marina, Guiri, Roger, Michele, Susko, Pol, Popi and Irene… And we found ourselves rolling out a skate/music event, with a 100 boys and girls skating, painting templates with SNT’s cat with stencils… We also carried over the ramps that we’d built with the association that have made recent
Fridays in Sants crazy fun
! And thanks to all this there are now thousands of new young rippers at the plaza! Since this started many more schools have contacted us and the relationship with the neighbourhood is better than ever. So we think we are on the right track.
Raul Navarro, backside flip, 2005. Photo: Roger Ferrero.
Can you tell us a little bit more about your meetings with the council? Are there any specific arguments to help them appreciate where you were coming from? I’m thinking things that other groups fighting for similar causes might be able to use…
As I have said before, as soon as we organised into an official association they contacted us, which is something we all are very happy about… Because if we were not in all those meetings they would have been talking about skateboarding without the skaters, which would have been pretty sad. They know that we have been there since 1984 and they understand that they cannot just erase us from the map. But they also know that the square has to be for the entire neighbourhood. It is a hot spot that everyone wants to enjoy: schools, seniors, etc. And the plaza has never been very popular with people from the neighbourhood because it was just a slab of granite in front of the station. The original idea of ​​this type of space comes from the United States and it wants people to use it as they want. And it was the locals of the old Turó Park (the skatepark where most of the OG’s from Sants) gave it a use.
It’s great that we are now being taken into account, but we will have to see how they include other things that the neighbours want such as green areas, which it seems cannot be installed because underneath the plaza are the train tracks and the tree roots and the weight of dirt for planting would make the infrastructure not stand up. So in that respect we have a certain advantage. There basically are two opposing views: those that want to recreate the original plaza because it has an architecture award and then of the some people in the neighbourhood who want to change it and make a more inclusive space. At the moment we are in the middle of the process and as I said before, nothing is certain and ADIF has the last word and will be the ones accepting (or not) proposals from the council, which should include skateboarding in one way or another. We just don’t know that exactly what that will be… Will they make the original plaza and let us it skate (what we’re obviously pushing for)? Or will they mix the original design with some new elements? The work is planned to finish in 2024.
On our website you can find design proposals of all kinds, from the most psychedelic to some made with the video game that is so popular these days! Hahaha.
There is also a plan where our idea is clearly exposed
. That of a new shared square where the everyone from the neighbourhood’s needs are taken into account. It would be about keeping the upper part where most of us have been skating our whole life but also sharing the spaces where there is no skating so that everyone has room. It is clear that they are not going to just give the us the whole plaza … But we would like to be included in its redesign.
Adrian Del Campo, switch heelflip frontside tailslide 2016. Photo: Roger Ferrero
At this stage what do you need from the skate community for your plans to go through, and why is it so crucial to act now?
Because although they’ve agreed to consider us as part of the community nothing is set in stone yet, so it is very important to make as much noise as possible as that’s what helped save iconic spots like South Bank and Hotel De Ville in Lyon.
We believe that if they saved SNT and rebuilt it it would be a dream not only for the locals, but for everyone who has been in that square during the 2000s. It was paradise for skateboarding and recovering a spot like this would represent a very important event worldwide. Like as soon as they’d restored the square in Lyon, the first thing we did was look at flights to go skate it! Same thing with South Bank… But in general we are at the key moment in these discussions and we need the question of skateboarding to have as much backing as it possibly can if we want to get them to rebuild the original plaza again. We have to apply as much pressure on the council as possible for that to happen, they must know how important that plaza is. We do already have a foot in the door but time is running out. Let’s make Sants great again. There is a
change.org
collecting signatures, we believe it is important for the support to be global, since we will all be able to enjoy the spot if we save it.
We have also just launched a crowfunding page to raise money in hope of making more ramps, putting on more events, more photo or video exhibitions etc. which you can reach
HERE
.
Beyond it being a great skate spot, what are some of the things that contribute to the value of spaces like these, and why do you think it’s so important to protect them?
Mate Barcelona has always been the capital of skate tourism, good weather, good spots … But if you are a local you realise that there are no spaces for young people in the city; this is something that has been repeated to us in meetings with the city council. In Barcelona there are many pipicans (these sand places for the dogs to pee), petancas (this old game with metal balls for old people) and playgrounds, but young people have no places to meet and hang out. Sants represents a home for many kids in the neighbourhood and a space where they can do physical activity for free and share it with many more people of different ethnicities, cultures and genders. You should see the plaza on Fridays when all the kids who come to skate the ramps of the association, they are crazy jumping from one side to the other with the kickers, ripping, and super stoked! These kids come from all types of neighbourhoods in Barcelona, ​​from the poshest to the poorest, they mix, they know each other, it is a meeting point for more than 20 people every day.
Imagine if the square was not a crappy DIY in the middle of the city with the ground looking like it’s just been bombed as it does now… It would be crazy. The whole community and the whole neighbourhood would win. And that is what the association wants to promote. A space for the neighbourhood, where people can grow up calm as we have grown up in the plaza. I’ve been spending all my time there since I was a kid and my parents knew where I was, that it was a safe place,where I could be with my friends without worrying about anything. That place help make us the grown ups we are today.
I think that Barcelona’s council still does not know the full potential that skateboarding has for the whole community, young people, boys and girls, mothers and fathers, the elderly… Everyone!

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  October 30, 2015
Geoff Rowley leaves Flip Skateboards
Pretty surprising considering how he talked about his relationship with the brand when we
interviewed
him a few months back… Very curious to see what his next move will be.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 15, 2021
Flo Mirtain’s ‘En Passant’ interview
Casper stall
After having filmed and edited Flo’s part for
Free Skate Mag
, I appear to have somehow now also landed myself the task of interviewing him for the aforementioned magazine’s print piece. But what is there still to say about a pro who’s already had countless interviews and articles discussing how obsessed he is with skateboarding (and Coca-Cola) or how his name is constantly getting confused with Flo Marfaing’s? After racking my brain for a bit I landed on the idea of exploring some slightly more serious themes… Basically, two of the most recurring topics to come up during our numerous afternoons spent playing chess (okay there aren’t actually that many but saying you play chess always sounds pretty steez) and smoking joints (yeah we definitely go through a lot more of those than games of chess) are the feeling of growing old and the speed at which time seems to be flying by before our very eyes.
Flo and myself (along with all the other members of our crew) are now in our 30s and have spent the last ten years of our lives skating, travelling and partying together. Needless to say our glorious twenties have flown past worryingly fast, and we’re now facing what one could only describe as ‘un coup de vieux’ (essentially the sudden brutal realisation that one is no longer ‘young’). It’s that feeling you get when you realise skate videos don’t quite have the same effect on you without the names at the beginning of each part and that good old [SV] intro to Dr. Dre’s ‘Keep Their Heads Ringin’. Something that really sinks in when kids at HDV come up to you and say ‘excuse me sir…’ or grumpy civilians ask you ‘are you not too old to be playing with one of those?’ The groupies have now been replaced by girlfriends who are sick and tired of seeing you leave the house to roll around in shit all day, especially as it generally means you’ll be whining about various pains you didn’t even know existed when you return. Your warm ups have now become as painfully slow and difficult as starting up a VX1000, and I’ll spare you the more minor details such as hair loss or putting on weight for no apparent reason… We’re here to talk about skateboarding.
Flo is no longer a rookie in the game. He’s skated for companies of another era, such as Cliché or DVS and turned pro long before body varials and no-complies had made a comeback. Now, at the age of 31, he often finds himself thinking about his future and life post professional skateboarding. Is skateboarding synonymous with eternal youth? How many years of skating do I still have left in me? Am I one day going to be restricted to just doing slappies? This is the kind of internal questioning we attempted to address together, between Sega Mega Drive breaks and zooted games of chess.
Photography in Lyon by Fabien Ponsero
Interview by Guillaume Colucci
Hey Flo! How’s it going? You just got back from a month in Barcelona, was that planned to avoid the lockdown in France?
Yo! Yeah all good, how are you?! I’d actually already planned to be in Barcelona in November as I was meant to meet (Anthony) Claravall and Tiago (Lemos) out there to film this advert for a new NB# shoe, but yeah the timing definitely turned out to be pretty convenient…
What’s it like skating with Tiago? He looks as safe as he is G…
For sure! He definitely is. We’d bumped into each other before but it was the first time I got to properly hang out with him and yeah, the dude is just really nice, really humble, and the skating… It’s honestly insane. It’s like he can do anything he wants but without looking like a robot. You know how with some skaters that can do any trick they want it sometimes gives you the feeling that skating is too easy and you get a bit desensitised? Well with him it’s kind of the opposite, when you watch him skate, he makes you realise just how difficult everything he’s doing is.
Coming back to you, given you probably no longer need a formal introduction, why don’t you start off by telling us if you’ve made any major life changes since your last interview?
Not really… Life goes on you know? I guess I turned 30, which is kind of a big milestone for me.
You’re also the Hélas TM now… Can you tell us a little bit about that role?
Oh yeah! I guess when we were filming the video Steph Khou was taking on quite a lot of different responsibilities at the same time; he was in charge of the production, the video, organising tours, etc. So towards the end he asked me if I’d be down to help out with team stuff, specifically with organising tours. So far I haven’t had too much to do, especially with Covid and stuff this year, but it’s something I’m interested in exploring… It could be useful for after skating you know? It’s good for me to start looking into other things I can do beyond the actual skating itself.
After having spent so much time around all this, seeing how things work, I thought it was maybe a good option for me… It’s like a little warm up for what might come further down the line.
So do you think becoming a TM is the ideal follow up job for pro skaters?
I mean it really depends on the person but I see it as a good way of staying in the mix and being around the world of skateboarding, which I love, whilst doing something a little bit different.
When you were younger, was becoming a professional skater your goal in life or did you have other ambitions?
I’d say it was maybe a distant dream but definitely not a goal! When I was a kid the idea of being pro was something that just felt completely unattainable. After I finished high school I came to Lyon to continue studying and become a schoolteacher. I chose this city because of skating, and I chose to study to become a teacher because I’d have as much free time to skate as when I was studying, same hours, same holidays… Basically ever since I started I’ve always done everything I could to make as much time as possible for it in my life, but the idea of actually doing it as a job was never an option I considered. I guess I just fell into it.
Switch crooked grind
Apparently 30 is meant to be the peak of man’s physical strength. Do you feel in good shape or do you feel like your body is starting to struggle with what you’re putting it through?
So I’ve heard… It’s a weird feeling, like in terms of technique I’ve never felt as good as I’m feeling now, but on the other hand on the purely physical front, I can feel that my body can’t quite keep up in the way that it used to… Especially in terms of stamina and recovery for example… And I have to say it’s a pretty frustrating thing to realise. Like I feel I can do harder stuff than before but it’s also getting more and more difficult for my body to cope with what I’m putting it through.
Have you had to change certain habits? Like are you eating healthier, smoking less, stretching after your sessions, etc.?
I mean I’m trying, slowly. But to be honest I’ve still got a long way to go. As in I know what I should be doing but it doesn’t quite come naturally yet… Like I kind of go through phases. If I get hurt for instance I’m going to do everything I can to get better as soon as possible, which means eating really healthy, drinking lots of water, doing physio, etc., but as soon as I can skate again I’ll stop taking care of myself.
A lot of skaters find other interests when they get older and like many people we know, you’ve gotten into climbing. How did you get into it and what are some of the similarities with skating?
My friend Nikwen got me into it… He’d been doing it loads so one day he convinced me to give it a shot and I was instantly hooked. It’s very similar to skating in a lot of ways… Like you can go do it in a crew but it’s an individual activity and it requires physical effort, but you also have to use your head, it’s actually pretty tricky. And then obviously climbing centres recreate natural spots, similarly to how skateparks do with street spots.
Backside 180 fakie 5-0 revert
Which activity would you say is harder?
I think when you get to a certain level you can’t really compare the difficulty, but to me picking up skateboarding is a lot more unrewarding in terms of progression; it’s a much longer process.
Do you still use your special calendar? If so could you explain how you use it and why?
Ha ha yeah definitely! It’s a calendar but I’m kind of using it switch. As in I don’t use it to plan anything in advance, but at the end of every day I’ll write down in it what I did in terms of skating. Like if I filmed a trick that day or just skated ‘for fun’, if I got hurt or even if I just chilled that day.
I started doing it about two years ago because sometimes I’d prang out about not being productive enough, sometimes rightly, sometimes wrongly. It would help me feel a little bit less guilty on the days where I wouldn’t have it in me to go on a mission and would help me give myself a kick up the ass if I’d clock that I’d not done anything for a little while…
So it’s almost more like a private diary… Do you ever go back and look at previous years to bring back nice memories?
I mean it’s kind of the same process as a private diary but it definitely doesn’t have the same purpose. Like every day when I add something I have a view on the whole month and that’s enough basically… I don’t usually look back at it like that. Although I’m sure I can tell you the last time I fucked my ankle and for exactly how many days I was out for hehe.
Fakie ollie to switch frontside crooked grind
You strike me as someone that’s generally quite nostalgic… Like you love playing retro video games, watching old cartoons, films from the ‘90s and 2000s, old skate mags/videos, remembering details from all of the evenings we spent getting pissed on Lyon’s famous boat bars…  Would you say you’ve got Peter Pan syndrome a little bit?
I dunno if Peter Pan syndrome is quite the right way to describe how I feel, because it’s not so much becoming an adult that scares me, it’s more the general idea, or feeling even of getting older… And as you said I am very nostalgic and do love remembering moments of my past that felt special, but that doesn’t necessarily mean I want to relive them. One thing that’s certain though: my current lifestyle is very different from the idea of ‘adulthood’ I was projecting for myself when I was younger.
Do you think this fear is linked to the fact that you skateboard, an activity that for the general public doesn’t really represent maturity or is it more the idea of getting older and closer to death that scares you?
Skateboarding is a part of it for sure… I’ve spent two thirds of my life skating, and even if my tastes have changed my vision of skateboarding has remained exactly the same as when I was a kid. Plus skateboarding still feels like a bit of a bubble that’s in some ways kind of separate from the ‘real world’. Like it’s a way of leaving behind the seriousness, pressures and responsibilities of your life and I think that plays a huge role in this… I think skaters can tend to get really complacent when it comes to existing in that bubble and often have a hard time coming out of it…
I think that’s why it’s so important for me to differentiate skateboarding from ‘the real world’. Like I’m not scared of getting older as a human being, like I have responsibilities that I deal with like a normal adult, what I’m scared of is getting older as a skateboarder and the idea of one day no longer being physically capable of doing what I love.
Frontside nosegrind pop-out
I mean you just turned 31, do you not think you’ve got quite a few more solid years of professional skating left in you? Like seeing Brandon Turner switch hardflip Wallenberg at 38 or JB still smashing it at 40… Does that not make you feel a bit better about all this?
Oh definitely! That shit gets me so hyped! I’m constantly looking at what people who are a bit older than me are doing ‘cause I know it’s going to reassure me.
And I mean getting older is a recurring subject, true, but it’s also not like I’m losing sleep over it either… I’m just very conscious of time passing.
When you start working on a part everything is calculated in advance, everything you want it to be is mapped out in your head… You even have notes for what tricks you want to do on what spots and how they could be filmed! What difference is there between how you work on a part now and how you did when you were 20? Is it the same approach? The same motivation?
I’d say the motivation is the same but the approach is a bit different. When I was younger a lot less thought went into the parts I filmed, things would happen more naturally as it was newer for me, but after a while it becomes harder to come up with new ideas, new spots, new tricks… That’s why I really admire people like Daewon (Song) who are able to reinvent themselves with each part, properly doing that is crazy.
Frontside 180 kickflip
What advice would you give to 20-year-old Flo if you met him?
I’d tell him to make the most of the next ten years.
You’re notorious for being a massive skate nerd; like when people have doubts about an ABD, you’re the person they get in contact with to check…
What are your thoughts on this new generation skaters who sometimes seem completely disinterested in what came before them?
I’m not too sure to be honest… I think sometimes even if they aren’t interested in the history right now, that can always come later. But also there’s so much skating constantly coming out these days that just keeping up with the present is hard enough.
Ever since I started skating I’ve been as passionate about doing the activity as I have been about the whole universe that surrounds it. For me both complement each other, and I’m convinced that it helped me progress, opened me up to new horizons, introduced me to different styles and all that helped shape my own vision and develop my own tastes. But it doesn’t always have to be like that for everyone! Like if you just like the act of skateboarding and don’t give a shit about the rest that’s also cool!
When you were younger, to get recognition you kind of had to film parts or go to contests… Do you ever feel a bit ‘old fashioned’ for still always wanting to focus on filming parts? And do you think that with the role Instagram plays in skateboarding today, it’s easier to come up?
I think our generation, the one that started at the end of the nineties/early 2000s, really value videos and the role they have in our culture. Filming a part, shooting for a mag… It’s what I love doing because it’s what inspired me when I was younger and continues to inspire me today… And sure these things may not quite have the same impact as they used to but I don’t really feel like I’m that ‘old fashioned’ for still focusing on these things. The skate industry is kind of divided into categories and as you said before the main ones were contests, videos and mags, but they’re still here! It’s just that a bunch of new ones have appeared in addition to those…
And honestly, I’m not convinced it actually is easier for kids to come up these days, but it certainly feels like posting your footage on Instagram is a lot more effective. Plus I think it is just what kids prefer to do now… I haven’t met many that are down to save footage for a year and a half to build a part that will then get forgotten as quickly as their previous post… Because that is indeed very frustrating.
And what about ‘YouTube skaters’ (the people that have their own channels that they monetise etc.), what are your thoughts on th
em?
Right now I don’t really see the point in them to be honest, but if the content is good then why not I guess… So far the only stuff I’ve seen has been ridiculous though.
What about Tik-Tok? Have you finally understood the deal with that one or are you still feeling old/out of the loop?
Tik Tok…?
Backside 180 kickflip
While we’re on the topic of social media, I know you often read comments and the shit people say about you on the Internet… Are some of the things you read on there more hurtful than others?
I know it’s stupid to pay attention to that stuff, but yeah I do sometimes find myself reading them.And sometimes you don’t always have complete control over how you’re going to be presented in videos. If they show you focusing a board out of the blue with no context, without showing the hours or days of trying the same shit, the slams, the frustration, or any of the external factors that will have messed with your head, you can very easily come across like a bit of a nutter. But the truth is, I’m quite calm and reserved in real life and sometimes I feel like the image of me that’s portrayed in videos doesn’t always reflect what I’m actually like. And yeah sometimes that pisses me off a bit… But also I’m aware that it’s a part of the game and I accept it, plus it can be constructive and can push me to be more careful with the image of myself I’m putting out there. It’s definitely helped me re-evaluate some stuff.
When you see tricks that were illegal back in the day get a pass now, or even become trendy, does it make you feel like skateboarding has become more tolerant?
Yeah completely, but I actually find that really interesting. Sometimes the way someone does a trick will completely change the idea you have of that trick. You can more or less get away with anything these days if you do it well… And tastes evolve you know, there’s tricks I hated as a kid that I love seeing now and that’s probably because I hadn’t seen the right person do one.
We all know that trends tend to go in circular cycles, do you think we’ll see New Era hats, 360 pop shuvits, 8” boards and crook back lips make a comeback in a few years?
I reckon it could happen yeah… But I also feel like skateboarding has become so democratised now that it’s way more common to have lots of kids from the same crew with completely different styles and approaches… It almost feels as if every generation is now represented in one way or another.
Ollie into the bank
Emerica’s
Stay Gold
is over ten years old,
Menikmati
over 20 years old; some of the kids with whom we skate at HDV started skating at the same time as Pretty Sweet… Do you have any examples of things like that that suddenly make you feel old?
I’d say the most obvious one is that for ages I was the youngest when I’d go on tours and that now I often end up on trips with kids that are over ten years younger than me.
Alright to finish this off let’s talk a tiny bit about your future… What’s in store for Flo Mirtain? Are you now just going to be dreading the 40s the whole time or you going to try to live in the moment?
Let’s just try to live in the moment til’ we hit 40 and we’ll see how we feel then… We’ll probably end up asking ourselves all these questions all over again… But I hope I’ll still be a part of all this in one way or another!
Ok… Actually one last question: wanna play a game of chess or shall we just smoke a joint?
Both?

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 24, 2020
Pass~Port’s ‘Kitsch’ full video & an interview with Geoff Campbell
‘I want to interview Geoff and Callum together,’ I told Trent (Evans) this past December when we were discussing what would accompany the release of Callum Paul’s
Kitsch
part. Well, as you may remember,
Callum’s Pass~Port part dropped with a Callum only interview
. I did interview Geoff separately back then about his long time mate ‘Slaw’, filming
Kitsch
and more but it went really long so we had to shelve it. Well freshly dusted off for your pleasure is that Geoff interview to coincide with the release of
Kitsch
online. And like the kind human he is Geoff has also uploaded all his old videos to YouTube. Legend alert! Time to put the kettle on and feast your eyes…
Interview by Will Harmon
How long have you known Callum (Paul) and how did you guys meet?
Geoff Campbell: I probably met him soon after I moved to Melbourne, which was in 2006. But definitely for the first year or two years he was just a guy I would see in passing. We hung with different crews for the most part, but I would see him at events like a skate premiere or something.
You moved from Dunedin, New Zealand right?
Yeah.
Geoff switch back noseblunts in Japan, 2015. Ph. Thomas Robinson
So when you first moved to Melbourne it wasn’t this big crew you rolled with like in the
Secky Presh
days?
Basically, I moved to Melbourne after some my other NZ friends moved over: Arthur Kay, Sam Wood and William Jackson. We skated with each other first, as we didn’t know anyone. Then, pretty soon once I moved I met Jack Kirk (Kirksy). So then over time I met Kirksy’s friends. Jack didn’t really hang out with Callum either at that point. So, this went on for like two years, I’d just see Callum in passing and then I remember a few of us were going back to NZ for a six-month stint or something…when we left Kirksy just slipped into Callum’s crew and started skating with all that lot. When I got back they were all mates so naturally I just started hanging out with Callum all the time.
So how many parts do you think you’ve filmed with Callum now?
I don’t know… Well Callum was filming that
Glory Ride
part
with Syd (Britten Andrews), and so I was starting to hang out with Callum a bunch at that time and I would film Callum when Syd wasn’t there… This was about the same time as
Secky Presh
, oh no wait… Before that, I had this little HandyCam and I filmed a part with him called
Larking
. I really like the part; it’s with a Sony HandyCam and a duct taped on fisheye. He skates to Big Pun and Nina Simone in it.
Sick.
So I think that was during the time he was filming for
Glory Ride
. He was pretty productive; we would film so much stuff each day. He had just finished school and didn’t have a job. I was only working two days a week in a nightclub with Kirksy, so those days we would spend so much time skating – especially me, Kirksy, Callum and Bryce (Golder) as well. None of us really had proper jobs then.
Everyone else had full-time jobs.
We worked on Friday and Saturday nights in the club, so if anything the weekdays were more of our skate days.
So because of that did you guys end up skating different types of spots? Like ones you can skate during the week?
I think those three dudes (Bryce, Callum and Kirksy) just really loved combing the city streets, which I’m sure you can kind of see in the videos. We never had a car, we’d just meet up somewhere like Lincoln or something and it was just like whatever happens, happens – and I fell in love with that. Those three dudes were so good at making something out of nothing with spots. I mean there were all the Melbourne spots, the actual spots, but then we would film on all of the crap in between. It wasn’t even a conscious ‘oh we’re gonna be cutty guys’ or anything, just those guys loved sessioning crap spots as well. And I kind of came to love filming that… This is a bold claim, but I would say those three dudes (Bryce, Callum and Kirksy) have done the most shit out of anyone around Melbourne city, period. I mean there have been good skaters that have done crazy tricks at different spots, but you can’t walk 10 metres in the city without seeing something that one of those dudes has done something on … As I’m sitting here talking to you, to my left is a Kirsky line, to my right is some Callum stuff from the Pass~Port video, you look behind me and there’s a rail Callum skated once and I’m barely even trying to do this, this just happens to be where I’m sitting right now. That’s pretty cool.
It is! OK so tell me about the
Kitsch
premiere at the Sydney Opera House…
The premiere was really sick! So it was obviously at the Opera House and about a month before, or maybe even well before Trent (Evans) was saying, ‘I want everyone to wear suits to it,’ and I was so off that. Because people have worn suits before to premieres and things and I find it the most pretentious thing… Like, ‘we’re in the video, look at our suits, check out our parts!’ So I was pushing back on it and it got to about three weeks before the premiere and I was still like, ‘fuck that I’m not doing that.’ But then Trent finally convinced me. I had to suck it up and try to wear some nice clothes… Try and look the part.
Do you think it was the first time for most of the skaters there to be inside the Opera House?
Yeah, for a lot of people I think it was their first time. I will say that being dressed up was actually kinda sick; I had to eat my words. It was cool because of where it was at, and the fact that everyone did it. It wasn’t like just people that were in the video got involved, it really was everyone… It added an extra element to the night.
And what did you say on stage? Something like, ‘this isn’t the best video’ or something?
You would have seen that on Instagram. OK, so one of our mates (John Cruickshank) is a professional comedian so he did a 10-minute routine to warm the crowd up. It was really good; it’s something I’ve never seen at a skate premiere. He had good jokes and obviously he rinsed a couple of us and then at the end he claimed that it was ‘the best skate video ever made’. And so I really didn’t have any plans to speak; I’m not into public speaking, especially in front of 400 people. So basically he gave the mic to Trent and Trent, who I would have thought would have belted out some heartfelt speech, he basically just said’ ‘hey thanks everyone for coming. Geoff wants to say a few words…’ and he handed the mic to me.
Suited up for the Kitsch world premiere at the Sydney Opera House, August 2019. Ph. Bryce Golder
Stitch up!
Yeah it was gnarly! So I just said like, well here we are and I said a few things I guess, and then I said, ‘I certainly wouldn’t say it’s the best skate video ever made at all, but I hope you like it.’ And then some dude on Insta cut my speech up and cut out ‘I certainly wouldn’t say it’s’ so it just says on repeat ‘the best skate video ever made’.
Ha ha!
That’s what happens with Instagram though.
I thought it was interesting that you guys went to Baltimore filming for
Kitsch
. Why did you decide to go there and are there any good stories from that?
Ah I’m glad you noticed that. So I went on that
Nike trip to North Carolina
with Mike (Sinclair) and we skated all the spots there for two weeks, so I’m there and so is (Jason) Rainbird and Jack (O’Grady)… Josh (Pall) lives in LA and Callum was going to be up in Canada for the Dime Glory thing so…
Ah so you just extended your stay and did a little
Pass~Port
trip?
Yeah I planned it way before. So when the Nike trip was over we rented a van and Callum and Josh met us in Durham. We started there and I basically just made this itinerary. I had been in DC a few years back and the guys there just kept taking us to Baltimore and I just loved it. It was so interesting; like nothing I’d ever been around. So from North Carolina we made our way up to Richmond, skated there, and then went to DC. We stayed in DC for a week and went to Baltimore some of those days. We ended up driving there three out of the six days just because it was good and productive. After DC we went to Philly for a couple of days… That pole thing that Callum bluntslides to fakie and Josh noseslide transfers… We were just driving down the road and saw that like, ‘holy shit!’ That was just in Philly kinda near that bank spot where Freddy G (Fred Gall) rolls in and carves the circle then ollies the gap?
Yeah, yeah…
Yeah that spot was just around the corner and it was just a nice little find. It’s so cheap to get airBnBs in places like Philly so we chose to skate there and not really in New York. It’s too hard to get stuff done in NYC if you’re just there for a couple of days especially. We had two days in Philly and we actually got stuff. Our last day in Philly we woke up early, Rainbird got a trick, Josh and Callum got trick’s and then we just hit the road driving to NY and I mean this story has kind of been told, but it’s fucking good… So we’re driving to New York, we had an airBnB in NYC that night and then our flights back home were the next day. So on the drive Callum spots on Fred Gall’s Instagram that he’s selling those beers you know? (
Limited edition Fred Gall
Dirty Jersey Devil beers
)
Geoff Campbell and Callum Paul in Washington DC, 2018. Ph. Thomas Robinson
Yeah sick.
So Callum’s all, ‘I’ll just DM him and we can buy some of these beers.’ Because we’re literally driving through New Jersey at that moment, so Callum DMs him and he doesn’t get back to us. So we’re like ‘fuck, what are we gonna do?’ Then I’m thinking… ‘Mike (Sinclair) will have Freddy G’s number for sure!’ So we hit him up and he gave it to us. We call Freddy like, ‘Yo, we’re driving past New Jersey, we saw your post Instagram and we really wanna come get some beers… ‘Yeah yeah, where are you?’ And we told him and we’d gone 20 minutes too far so we turned around and headed back to Freddy’s. He sent us a pin to his house and as were driving there we were all giddy like, ‘fucking hell! We’re driving to Freddy Gall’s house to get beer. This is great!’ And it had already been a good day with the clips that morning…
What a great last day of the trip!
Yeah so we’re driving there all psyched, ‘this is insane! I wonder if it’s the same house as
in his Epicly Later’d
with his curb and everything?’ And sure enough we pull up and it’s the house, you know where he blows up the TV on the train tracks in the back. So when we pull up he comes out the front, ‘Oh Aussies! What’s up! Come in, come in!’ So he takes us around the side and first thing he says, ‘Check this out, I’ll give you a tour…’ and he shows us the curb and he’s like, ‘this curb, I stole this in 1987’ or something and then he takes us inside and his mum is cooking. ‘I’m cooking Jalapeno poppers, you want some?’ We politely decline as it was all happening so fast/was hard to take in… so then we follow Freddy and he has a stack of Nikes and a stack of adidas he’s trying to sling us, but then someone broke it to him that we’re good for shoes and that most of us were on the Nike Australian team. And then he’s like, ‘Oh damn, what’s your names?’ And then Josh was like, ‘Josh Pall’ and Freddy was like. ‘Hey I watched your part actually! That was fucking sick!’ So that was pretty cool that he’d seen Josh’s old part; so then we go to his room and he’s got all these beers. He sells us a 24-pack of these tall cans… We were just like, ‘Fuck yeah!’ You have to do it you know! When in Rome… And then he’s got all these boards… We bought a couple of boards off him and then he’s telling us he’s got these reissue Workshop boards and he’s been selling them on sites and saying they’re the originals ha ha…
The Pass~Port crew at Freddy’s house (with his curb), New Jersey, 2018. Ph. Thomas Robinson
Ha ha, sick…
Yeah that’s pretty funny. He had photos on his dresser from when he was 13 and shit, like why is this sitting here? He’s just giving us a tour of his house…
Yeah I just saw
a skatehoarders of his room
.
Yeah that’s it; there were just seven of us standing in his room. And then he had hats hanging on his mirror… ‘You guys want a hat?’ And it’s this sweated out hat that he’s been wearing for like 20 years and he’s like, ‘Yeah you have a hat and you have a hat too…’ etc, ‘yeah cheers’. I got mine home to Australia and it was in my house… And I was like, ‘I’m actually gonna get rid of this. This hat is disgusting.’ It this toxic hat that was brown when it should be beige or something you know what I mean? It’s cool that it was Freddy Gall’s, but you gotta draw the line aye… This is my house you know!
Him and Callum skated the curb for 10 minutes and then we had to get back on the road. Yeah and that was it, ‘Fuck, thanks so much for dropping by!’ He was stoked, he probably made 150 bucks cash off of us. The whole experience was just so good. Such an awesome dude. We headed on to New York and met up with some mates at a bar. It was just such a sick day.
Sounds like it.
It’s just a small part of the Pass~Port video, but still such a great day.
OK and what’s the story with the mental dude chasing after you in the video?
Oh fuck here we go… This is good that it’ll be told, because people just don’t understand what is happening. So I was skating this letterbox thing. This guy came home and he was real off it.
And where was this?
In Sydney. So I was trying a trick and then he rocked up and was fucking fuming. I just decided to keep trying; I don’t give a shit if some guy is pissed off. And then he grabbed the camera off the dude shooting photos and he just started grabbing our shit and called the cops. It got real hectic real quick and there was this big wrestle for the camera, and at that stage I was like, ‘Ah fuck we need to just get out of here. This dude is going nuts.’ So we start collecting our shit and packing up and then I see Rowan (Davis), this tiny dude, just wrestling with him for a bag. So at that stage he’d already called the cops, he was grabbing all our shit, it was getting real heated, ‘Man, I just wanna get our gear and get out’. So Rowan’s still wrestling this dude, ‘Fuck this, I’ll get his bag back.’ You know he’s obviously stolen Rowan’s bag, so I wrestle him for a second, there was a tussle all over the ground, I’m yelling, ‘film this, film this!’ Brendan the dude filming was just standing there watching it. Shit like this… you might as well film it. It’s either gonna be funny or gnarly.
Exactly yeah.
So anyway, he just starts filming and that’s when I break free. I basically break free, run, and the dude chases me and I’m like, ‘whose bag is this, whose bag is this? Let’s get the fuck out of here!… Someone grab it!” because I had my own shit. And then no one pipes up… ’Oh crap… Is it your bag?
‘Yes!!’ he says and he grabs it from me. ‘Here you go, have it.’ Now I know that; I’m outta here… he was livid.
It was the crazy dude’s bag!
Yeah! So now it’s as if I’m an idiot, but at the same time he was grabbing everything. It all happened so quick and Rowan was wrestling him for it. So essentially Rowan was just wrestling him for his own bag to fuck with him I guess. Ha ha…
No way…
Yeah and we were wrestling kind of hard. I was putting my all into it and when I broke free he was chasing me and you can see it in the footage: he’s out for blood.
He has a look in his eyes…
Yeah and now it makes sense because he thought I was stealing his bag, but I gave it back to him, ‘Have your bag. I’m so sorry, I thought it was one of our bags. I have no intention of stealing your bag you know…’ And basically that happened and we just left.
Did he cool down a bit at the end when you apologised?
Not really. I think he was just so stressed from the last ten minutes. He was fuming.
Kirksy and Geoff. Ph. Bryce Golder
It’s a good thing your mate filmed some of it.
Yeah I was stoked because I basically injured my knee after that and I never got to film for the vid so I had like a couple tricks and then I had that. It’s kind of like a good trick in a way… It’s one more clip for me… I’ll take it.
Yep! So you hurt your knee pretty bad…
Yeah I tore my ACL two years ago. I wasn’t trying to have a massive section in the video anyway, I was just happy to be in there. Obviously if I would have been able to film for those two years I would have been stoked to have more than two tricks… But in the end it probably worked out better for the greater good of the video, ha ha.
Can you tell us about the time Callum didn’t speak to you for months because you deleted a clip of yourself from his digicam?
The banning, oh man! OK so Callum always makes the
Guy Stokes Channel edits
, and so one day we were filming at Lincoln and I did a tre flip in a line, and I’m pretty shit at tre flips anyway, but I literally did the worst tre flip of all time. So you know with Callum if you mess up he’s gonna let you know about it; he’s gonna rewind that tre flip like 40 times and slow-mo it. And I was feeling sensitive that day and not in the mood; I wanted to delete it and never be reminded of it again.
So I snatched the camera off him and made a run for it and he starts chasing me up the street, like as far as both of us could run until we both got too tired and collapsed. Then he wrestled me on the ground for ages and I just didn’t let it go. It was gnarly: we were outside KFC near Lincoln wrestling on the ground and people were looking at us like one of us had stolen the camera as he was on top of me trying to get it. So we wrestled and I wouldn’t give up, after a bit I broke free and deleted the clip straight away. So then I walked back to Lincoln where he was, gave him the camera back. ‘Sorry Slaw, I had to do that.’ As I handed him the camera he just chucked it on the ground and smashed it to bits. From that moment on he just didn’t speak to me. He didn’t speak to me for four months, which was gnarly! The day to day crew was me, Callum, Kirksy and Bryce, so Callum would come out but he wouldn’t speak to me.
Gnarly.
So it just got real shitty. It was funny for a day, but then it got really shit. It’s not fun at all hanging around with your friends and having this tench in the crew. I actually got pissed off with him from it, ‘man, it’s no fun hanging around with the lads and not sitting around joking.’ He would talk to Kirksy, and Kirksy would talk to me, but it wasn’t like we could have a group convo.
So this went on for four months! How did it finally end?
Well one day we went to this party in the city and… Well I would always talk to Callum anyway, I’d say shit to him, but he would just sit there and ignore me. He just wouldn’t reply and then one day Trent (Evans) hit me up, ‘We’re going to Japan. We’re doing the Japan Pass~Port trip, I’ve got the tickets; they’re booked.’ So we’re at this party, and then, same deal, I would talk to/at Callum: ‘Callum, how sick! We’re going to Japan!’ and then he just goes, ‘I know, that’s good.’ And I was just like holy shit! It was such an emotional moment. ‘What the hell, you talked to me!’ and he might have said something like, ‘it’s been long enough’. From then on we were just totally normal like it never happened you know… Until the next ban of course.
Oh man… Wow.
It basically just sums up his stubbornness. He’s banned Bryce before as well. He banned Andrew Mapstone too. I’ve been banned twice, the first one wasn’t as long and I can’t think it was for. That 4-month one was from way back in 2014. We’ve had a good run since.
OK I wanna ask about the car boot session from
Kitsch.
Can you tell me about that?
That session was in Sydney and it started at 4am. It was Trent’s idea; he’d talked about it forever for the video. ‘I want to do this section at the Central kicker where everyone sessions the back of a car!’ It sounded good… ‘Yeah sure, we’d pull the car up and someone would crook it or something and then we’d get booted.’ Jack O’Grady’s brother has a couple of cars and this was his get about shit car you know, and I think we were all up in Sydney for the Pass~Port store opening. So Trent planned it for a Sunday night at like 4am, and it’s one of those things that when Sunday comes and you’ve been on the piss for a few nights already, you’re feeling pretty run down… ‘Man there’s no way we’re gonna skate at four in the morning!’
Mikey Mieruszynski back tails whilst Geoff films, Sydney, 2019. Ph. Thomas Robinson
Ha Ha, yeah I bet.
It was just one of those days that we were out skating and having beers all day and into the evening and then all of a sudden you realise how late it is… ‘4am actually isn’t too far off.’ We end up sticking it out and headed to the kicker at around 3:30am. It’s a shame because Callum and Kirksy got too drunk to skate, but overall it went surprisingly well and we got 40 minutes or something. It felt like the session lasted forever; it was nuts.
And then finally the police came?
Yeah, how it went was… Mikey Mieruszynski’s girlfriend was driving the car, which was insane when you think about it. Can you imagine taking your girlfriend on a filming sesh… let alone driving a car, pulling an illegal U-turn…4am…sitting in the car while everyone skates the boot…It’s nuts!
Anyway, so at the start the light would go green and she’d hook a left, pull up the curb, put on the hazard lights and then drive off again when the light turned yellow. We did that for a while but then only like three of the crew would get to try a trick and they would go so close together in a train that it was impossible for me to film each trick properly. I had to slow everyone down and sometimes people wouldn’t get a go for like five minutes.
In the end she just pulled the car up, flipped the bonnet and put on the hazard lights and acted like it was broken down, people got to session it properly for a bit. Then cops pulled up and they were just watching from across the road so at that point we just decided we needed to bail.
Squish (Jack O’Grady) jumps in the car, and as he jumps in straight away the cop puts his siren on. In my hazy state I thought, ‘Ah he’s just fucked himself’ you know, thinking he’s drunk for sure! I was like, ‘fuck man! He’s an idiot! What’s he doing?’ I was stressing… Everyone’s tells me, ‘Nah man, he hasn’t touched a drop all night.’
Smart that Jack jumped in there then.
Yeah well Georgia (Mikey’s GF) was sober too of course, but since she had popped the bonnet she was just too stressed and had to bail. She had said, ‘I’ll leave the car here but I’m done.’ So Jack gets pulled over up the road and we’re all packing up our stuff watching him in the distance. He finally comes back after 15 minutes, ‘They’ve given me a charge for disrupting the flow of traffic’… or something like that. You can’t park your car in the middle of traffic lights with your hazards on and pretend it’s OK. It was a traffic infringement you know. And we asked Jack if it was demerits points on his licence and he said, ‘I don’t know something is supposed to come in the mail’. To this day nothing has shown up.
It worked out perfect! Trent said he’d pay for it, but then it’s just never come. Sweet! Awesome session and it worked out. That kicker is so perfect; every skater that has ever driven past it is thinking it… ‘Oh my god look at that kicker!’
But it goes straight into traffic…
It goes into five lanes of traffic. Well Morgan Campbell did actually skate it way back. He ollied a car out of it around the beginning of the millennium which is amazing, but that might have been when it was just built. You can get some goes to do an ollie I’m sure, but to have a full session: forget it. I can’t believe it worked out and we got so long. When we finished and it was five in the morning, we were all juiced and wanted to just go to a pub and celebrate but we couldn’t. You just can’t go to a pub at 5am on a Monday morning; dudes were driving in to start work. So we couldn’t celebrate, we just had to suck it up and go home.
Wow you guys got quite lucky then. Do you ever think about filming VX again?
I actually don’t to be honest. I’m not saying I wouldn’t, but my VX is pretty busted. Once I finally put that box set to rest I was kinda like: ‘I’m done.’
It’s just easier without it as well: I used to carry around HD cameras and a VX and it got to the point where no one actually needed VX footage… ‘Why am I carrying this around still?’
Yeah. I asked this of filmers a lot that used to film VX. Would they ever go back? And some said they’d like to do just one trip, like a 10-day trip and film VX and then have that VX edit come out with the article for that trip…
Oh yeah for sure I’d do that. The only thing is I’d probably be shit at filming with it. At least the first three days…
Yeah, yeah, you’d be all far way and shit! Ha ha…
It’s just a whole different way of filming. Not so much the far awayness, just the way a skater comes in and swoops from one side to another with HD it’s a lot different. But I think that whole VX versus HD question is absolutely irrelevant. I’ve been asked that: ‘What’s your take on VX vs. HD?’ Man come on! That debate’s gotta be done… If you haven’t accepted HD by now then come on, you’re tripping.
Well in the past I think the early HD videos were kind of stale, but in the past couple of years they’ve gotten so much better.
I think it’s definitely harder to film HD and make it look exciting… That’s really another reason to ditch the VX though, ‘I should just use this (the HD camera) all the time and work on getting better with it.’ Everyone got so good at filming with VX in the end, but VXs had been around for two decades. Let’s face it…HD/16:9 is the format now: try and get better at that.
OK so I wanted to ask you what’s the dynamic been now that you work for Nike SB? Do you miss filming with the old crew?
Things have changed but I don’t think that has anything to do with me working for Nike SB. In reality I still film with Callum and Kirksy and whoever’s around. Callum has a job, Kirksy works a lot so that’s really what’s changed. We’re not all free at the same times anymore. I’m lucky that in my job I still get to spend a lot of time filming, it just may be that it’s with different dudes. A lot of the younger Nike dudes are at that age when they don’t have jobs yet. They’re the ones out all day so I’m out there filming as much as I can and thankfully that is ticking some of boxes at work for me too.
I see.
All those years where I made all my own videos,
Secky Presh
,
Cunnies Box
,
$21.50
,
Callum’s pro part
, all that stuff; that was my twenties. I can’t work at a nightclub two nights a week and survive nowadays you know.
Yeah maybe it was time to start making a bit more money…
Yeah, we’ve all got girlfriends… We don’t go skating Monday to Friday 11am until 10pm and then all day Saturday and Sunday anymore. We just can’t do it. That’s what’s changed. We’ll never have our twenties again unfortunately.
It’s the sad truth.
And it gets to that point as well that you work all day, you kind of just want to go have the fun skate.
Yeah you don’t necessarily want to go film…
Yeah you might not want to trawl the streets, because if you don’t get a trick it’s pretty much like the day wasn’t as fun. I haven’t really skated in the past two years, but once I can again I’m going to be going to work and spending an hour after work at the skatepark just skating, for myself. I guess it’s been a bit of blessing for me as far as filming since I’ve been injured. When I’m injured I put everything into filming, because it’s like my only way to be satisfied. Like when I go out and film a trick of someone, that’s as good as me going and having a fun skate. I feel some sort of accomplishment.
That’s sick. Well it really shows you put your all in when you watch
Kitsch
.
Thank-you. Yeah and since I’ve been injured for so long, my way of filming has probably changed a bit too… Well it also goes back to having a job, a girlfriend, etc., so if I’m going filming I kind of want to be like: ‘OK, what do you wanna go film?’ You need a plan. It’s not like when I was young where, ‘cool, we’ll meet up, we’ll hang out, I’ll skate all day, you’ll skate, and when you’re busting I’ll get the camera out.’ Because I can’t skate right now, ‘OK, I’m blowing off my girlfriend to come out and sit here… If that’s what you’re gonna do, then I’ll just go home… But if you wanna bust, of course I’m there.’ This is a bit of a dynamic some of the guys don’t really like, but this is just the reality. I can’t afford all that time like I used to. So that’s changed and it sucks of course. I try to tell the younger guys now: ‘Make use of your time when you’re young and take on opportunities while you can.’
Here I am sounding like I’m 70… I mean I’m only 32… But as time goes on you realise how special all the times that have passed were and I’m grateful now I made the effort to capture those free and easy times… and have those videos and memories with all my friends. All those memories and the people involved mean the world to me.
I’m so glad you documented the era. Thanks Geoff.
Sorry to blabber on so much, but thank you!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 19, 2021
Shelf Life #2 by Kyle Beachy
After his
first book review column
some months ago, Kyle Beachy has managed to find some time in his busy schedule to write up another instalment of Shelf Life. You see, Kyle has been quite consumed this year promoting his own book, The Most Fun Thing: Dispatches from a Skateboard Life, as well as skating, travelling, teaching and making cute Instagram videos with his dog Sonny. We’ve actually interviewed Kyle about his new book, which you can read here on the site soon, so keep your eyes peeled for that. But for now, Kyle is going to tell us about some other books he’s enjoyed; two by skateboarders, and one by an author he suspects you might be into.
Shelf Life #2
Kyle Beachy
On Vadi, Hölsgens, Berrera
José Vadi
Inter State: Essays from California (Soft Skull, 2021)
I will begin with three admissions. First, that the back cover of this collection of fierce and nimble essays about California—which state, lest anyone get distracted by the many and loud stories New York City tells of itself, is indeed both heart and spine of the American mythos—features a promotional blurb that I contributed at José’s request to help him and his publishers sell this, his debut book. Second, last August I sat down to a conversation with José over Zoom for a promotional event organized to sell my own book. Third, and most damning to any standard of objectivity you might expect from a book review, a month prior to that promotional conversation I met
José
on a blazing Oakland evening to skate the Rockridge curbs. We did slappies and pointed phone cameras at each other and discussed the dense history of that parking lot and other places nearby.
“Look,” said José, “that’s Rob Welsh.”
But what’s important is that my promotional blurb for
Inter State
is as honest as I can be about the book—the country that José and I share would indeed be a less wretched place if we had more writers like him, and his essays surely do present a loving, angry case against the persistent belief that men of power are also men of character. He writes of Californian soil and concrete, connecting “those fields that have been razed and seeded and destroyed and reirrigated and dammed and flooded and manipulated to a science so exploitative that the soil barely recognizes itself in these valleys of abundance, exportation, growth, and water,” to street skating’s Bay Area foundations in “the ubiquitous shadows of an investment group’s skyscraper.”
It is a magic act of the truest sort. And since writing my promotional blurb I have, as I threatened, gone back to read this book again. I found it even more rewarding this time, as I knew I would.
Sander Hölsgens
Skateboarding in Seoul: A Sensory Ethnography (University of Groningen, 2021)
Friends, do not blame the skateboard academics. Ignore them if you choose, and even doubt if you like the purity of their interests in your life’s primary love, this bodily practice that lives beneath thought and ripples through your skin and bones in ways that require no language, least of all such rigid and formal codes as theirs, least of all footnotes, citations, and hyphenates. Every world has its conventions. And, I wonder, have you heard how some of us speak? We are not exactly innocent the silliness of made-up terms.
In
Skateboarding in Seoul
, Hölsgens gives us—for free, thanks to a creative commons license—a site-specific study via methods he describes as “researching-with and making-with.” He was not only embedded among skaters in Seoul, but was in fact a skater among skaters in Seoul. Which perhaps matters to you, that Hölsgens is not “only” an academic but also a skater and filmmaker, and that indeed his book includes a quietly beautiful and meditative film, “Reverberations,” to accompany, illustrate, and enlarge upon the text. His lineage includes, among many others (the book’s bibliography runs nine pages), Iain Borden, Ocean Howell, Asa Berg, and other names familiar to anyone who follows this particular junket.
None of whom have turned quite as hard as Hölsgens has to phenomenology. From Heidegger’s notion of attunement through Maurice Merleau-Ponty and Hubert Dreyfus on theories of coping, here is an enriched account of that famous “skater’s eye,” including an argument that skateparks compromise this perceptual practice that’s so central to the skateboard activity. In Seoul, we learn, parks function as restful and semi-familial respites to the prevailing living conditions of the city. Squint a little and this should start feeling familiar. What the academy calls ethnography is just another term for the deepest, most comprehensive scene report you’ll encounter.
Jazmina Berrera
On Lighthouses (Trans. Christina Macsweeny, Two Lines, 2020)
What a delight, the book that reveals its intricacy the longer you spend time in its company. Books are not people but they are not far off, the best of them. This slim, pocketable volume from Berrera, a Mexican writer living in New York City when she wrote it, is about lighthouses, as it claims, but behind the six structures she visits is the matter of collecting as a practice, that unfinishable quest that so many of us take up in some form or other. And why? Why search out and accumulate? Skateboards, stickers, and silly shot glasses. Landmarks, ballparks, and the graves of famous rock stars.
For Berrera, it’s a matter of collapsing distance, a satisfaction that repeats as each new object comes into the collector’s grasp. Pointing at the prepositional title of Virginia Woolf’s To The Lighthouse, she situates this “to” as an “archetype of a promise, the expectation of happiness that can sometimes be confused with, or perhaps is, happiness.” I love this line. Elsewhere, she wonders if it’s possible “to separate the concept of collecting from culture.” And like any good essay, its reader will find itself wondering along with it—What is the relationship between collecting and happiness? Or, if we’re feeling bold, what is the relationship between culture and happiness?
Distance, here, is not only a theme—what I love most about this book is the way it conveys the physical sensation of distance. I mean that distance is both Berrera’s subject matter and a formal technique, which manifests as an affect for the reader. There’s a coolness to the book like the light blue of its US hardcover, a blue of openness and clarity, one that reminds us that whatever else it is, distance is always an invitation, a potential for future closeness.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  December 24, 2018
Rural Returns
Juan Virues, pop shove-it over the hip, Terceira.
Sail west from Lisbon for 850 miles and you’ll come across the volcanic islands of the Azores. Centuries ago the Portuguese settled these islands bringing their customs and cuisine to the region but also their penchant for that small white cobblestoned ground you find throughout Portugal. If you’ve ever been to Lisbon you know this ground, it’s called calçadas and it sucks for skating. But that didn’t seem to deter the Tangram guys from heading to these remote islands in the middle of the Pacific. In fact they found some pretty incredible spots by the looks of Gerard’s photos. After speaking with Octavio Barrera and Dani Millán I take it those tiny, rough, white cobbles weren’t too much of an issue.
Photography by Gerard Riera
Words by Will Harmon
Whose idea was it to head to the Azores Islands?
Dani Millán: I guess it was both of ours, because we did a trip together to the Azores about 4-5 months ago for RVCA. We were there for two weeks and we found a lot of spots. But we were there filming stuff for RVCA and we couldn’t really skate ourselves, so we knew we had to come back with the guys and try and really skate it properly.
So it was a RVCA trip, but it wasn’t a skate trip?
DM: No it was more like a volcanic escape… You remember that
Lanzarote
trip two years ago?
Oh OK yeah.
DM: It’s more like artsy stuff… Or rather creative exploration – this is what I call these type of projects. Mixing a little skate with visiting local craftsmen was the kind of direction. So on that trip I skated a little bit, but now we’ve come back on a proper skate trip.
Just skating as the focus and not searching for volcanoes and artsy stuff…
DM: Not this time.
Octavio Barrera: Yeah the other thing was more like a short film.
Octavio Barrera, ollie up and over, Terceira.
So I know there was
another skate trip with Nestor Judkins and some Canadian guys to the Azores
. Did you talk to Nestor before you guys went?
DM: Yeah we talked to him a week before we left. I told him we were going to the Azores and he was stoked. I asked him for recommendations and he was like, ‘dude I don’t know. We went on vacation. We were there for two weeks and we just pretty much skated what we found.’ So no tips, no nothing.
OB: The other thing is they just went to São Miguel. So in Azores there are nine islands so on that trip we visited two of them and the second one, Terceira, there is nothing. Nobody’s skated there before, maybe one or two guys around the school or something. It’s more rural. So we visited that island and there we found crazy spots.
Yeah so no skate trips had ever been to that island huh?
DM: Yeah I think no skaters have made it to Terceira, this second island. I know São Miguel has been skated by Nestor and there is a crew from Portugal as well that made a trip there two years ago, but I’ve never heard about anyone skating in Terceira. It was cool; we spent most of our time there.
So how did you guys find the spots? Did the locals show you or did you rely on your recon work from the RVCA trip?
DM: It was fifty-fifty. We knew a couple spots from the last trip, but we pretty much just drove around because the island is super small. We found spots that were not actually spots, but we were down to skate them. Some were pretty far out in the countryside… We were pretty much driving around and ‘fuck look at this! Stop here!’ and we tried to skate it.
OB: And it was crazy, the people there were super friendly and helpful. We never got kicked out…
DM: Especially in Terceira because they’ve probably never seen a skateboarder before. At the beginning they were kind of weird like, ‘What are these guys trying to do?’ but then they were super stoked to see people taking pictures, filming and skating. So we didn’t have any problems with police. We actually skated three spots in the airport.
Felipe Bartolomé, boardslide, São Miguel.
Wow the airport!
DM: Yeah and that’s pretty much the feeling of how the rest of the island was. The police were like, ‘OK, you’re cool.’
OB: Everyone speaks Portuguese there. I can understand it a little bit but Thaynan (Costa) came and he really helped a lot. He was really on vacation; he didn’t bring his board.
DM: Yeah Thaynan was hurt.
So what were some of your favourite things about the Azores?
OB: In my opinion, probably the vibe of the people there and the spots. The spots were just totally different. It reminds me of the Canary Islands a bit, with less people and twenty years ago. Some of the times it didn’t look like skate spots but you had to find something to do there. It’s not like a big city; there are no big buildings.
DM: Yeah we just saw one elevator.
(Everyone laughs)
OB: It was pretty much just small houses. With this kind of architecture you had to really try and get creative.
Octavio Barrera, 180 up then fakie kickflip, Terceira.
So with all you filmed over there are you guys making a new Tangram edit?
DM: Yeah the idea is to make a new video, but not super long, just 10-15 minutes maximum. And with that we want to change the concept of Tangram.
Yeah aren’t you changing the name from Tangram Wheels to Tangram Collective?
DM: Yeah that’s maybe not the final name, but we want to change from a company to a collective. We are not going to keep selling wheels anymore, but we are still friends and we want to keep doing projects together, exhibitions, videos or whatever. We want to keep the collective group of friends, but fuck the wheels, ha ha. This way we can invite other guys like Felipe or Viru, even though they’re not on Tangram.
OB: Yeah it’s not just attached to selling wheels and promoting your company…
Carlos Cardeñosa, frontside 50-50 grind, Terceira.
So with the collective you don’t have to be as strict.
OB: Yeah pretty much like that. We are still keeping the website. But we have a problem with our Instagram account: it’s not working anymore.
DM: We got hacked a month ago. We pretty much lost our account. And also the last stock of wheels turned yellow from the sun…
No!!!
DM: Yeah so there were a couple steps there where we decided that we had to change something. It’s time to move on with the same group of people, but let’s extend the concept a little bit.
Ok so tell me a little bit more about the Azores… You guys got good weather? How was it there?
OB: It’s a little bit colder and humid. The islands are super green. It’s pretty much a mix between the Canary Islands, Lisbon and Ireland probably. The weather would change super fast…
DM: We were lucky because it didn’t rain that much. Before we went we checked the weather and it looked like it was going to rain for seven days but it only rained once. Plus we were on the volcanoes and stuff that day so it didn’t matter. It was cheap there too; you can still get a coffee for 70 cents. You get a Coca-Cola from the vending machine at the airport for 80 cents!
Dani Quintero, backside boardslide, Terceira.
That’s incredible considering most airport prices.
DM: Yeah! So it’s kinda cool doing a trip to a place like this, it’s not a huge city like San Francisco with traffic and all the people, which makes it harder. And then when you go to small places it’s easy living: people are sitting down outside their houses, smiling and enjoying the day. It’s really nice to do trips to places like this.
And were there a lot of other tourists on the island?
OB: In Terceira no.
DM: In São Miguel we saw some, but not that many. I think it was because it was the offseason.
OB: Yeah it’s not the main season for tourists (September). It was crazy because we tried to go out in Terceira one of the last nights we were there and we went to like the most popular club there in the town. So we just came in, six of us, and we closed the door and everyone was looking at us like, ‘who is this?’
The music stops…
OB: Yeah we were the strangers. You could tell that they’re not really used to foreigners/tourists.
Felipe Bartolomé & Dani Quintero, wallrides, Terceira.
So maybe like Mallorca during the winter.
OB: Yeah maybe Mallorca during the Blueprint trips days.
Most people visit the islands to see and walk around the landscape right?
DM: All the tourists you’re gonna find in the Azores are people who want to walk around in the nature.
OB: Yeah they want to explore the volcanoes and caves.
DM: It was funny because at the airport we saw all these tourists with boots and all the equipment for walking and then there was us: homeless-looking people with bags of stuff…
Skate shoes with holes in them…
DM: Yeah, the people were looking at us like, ‘what are these guys going to do here?’
Felipe Bartolomé, drop-in, São Miguel.
So were all the spots rugged? Or some smooth ones?
DM: There were all types. We skated plazas, like normal plazas in little neighbourhoods and then crazy spots like Felipe’s coast-to-coast grind.
OB: That was crazy! It was an entrance to a farm. It was an old stone wall and a fence between the wall and he just 50-50ed from one side to the other. It was a good mix of weird spots and some regular ones. Some of the spots had the Portuguese stone. It’s pretty Lisbon style.
Oh those annoying small white cobbles!
OB: Yeah! It’s crazy it’s there too in the Azores.
DM: Have you seen how they do it? They lay the stones in one by one…
It must take forever! Forever to make this shit ground…
DM: I don’t know why they do that.
Octavio Barrera, frontside 50-50 grind, São Miguel.
OK any last things you guys want to add?
OB: I think the only thing is to inform the next skaters who will visit the Azores that they have to be clean. Everything is clean and super green and there’s a lot of nature. And you can feel it, the people are super respectful of their natural landscape so it’s kind of weird when we get there on the plaza and drink beers and stuff. You can’t leave everything there on the floor, I think they’d be really mad at that.
Basically pick up after yourselves…
DM: I mean you have to do that everywhere, but especially in these serene natural places. You are surrounded by nature so you kind of feel extra pressure or responsibility to leave everything clean and respect the place where you are. That’s the main point we think deserves to be said.
David Lougedo, Backside kickflip to switch manual, Terceira.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 12, 2024
Causing A Scene – The R.A.D. Book
Hugo Carey, frontside slash, Meanwhile Gardens, London, 1978. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce
It’s happening…
Read And Destroy
the book that is. After years of archiving photos, scanning slides and looking for funding, a hardcover publication about the seminal UK skate magazine from the late ‘80s to mid-‘90s can be in your hands very soon. We spoke to Dan Adams, former
R.A.D.
designer and chief archivist for the project, to find out a little more.
– Will Harmon
Do you want to start by talking about the origins of
Read And Destroy
aka
R.A.D.
and how it started as a BMX mag and then transitioned into a skateboarding magazine?
Dan Adams: Yes, it’s explained in some length in the book, but really the pivotal character in all of this is Tim Leighton-Boyce. He was originally photographing skateboarding in the late 1970s. It was something that he’d fallen in love with and he wanted to record it on film. Because of the pressures of wanting to be a professional photographer, and skateboarding fading into such semi insignificance in the early ‘80s, he ended up having to shoot BMX, which he shot very well, and became very much part of that scene. He was working at a BMX magazine called
BMX Action Bike
, but he always wanted to be able to push skateboarding some way and his words were ‘we were trying to slip skateboarding in wherever we could.’ And in the mid-’80s there was a kind of Zeitgeist going on, skateboarding was making a resurgence. Skaters were picking up BMX bikes to lurk around on and some BMXers had gotten skateboards. So there was this strange cross pollination. At the same time, there was also a very split culture. They didn’t always get on so well, but Tim saw an opportunity when there was a change of publisher, a change of personnel, and there was a knock-on effect where he saw the chance to get more skateboarding in the magazine. And it just took off. The moment was right; right place, right time. The Zeitgeist let it happen.
And this was around 1987 when it evolved into a skateboarding magazine?
It still wasn’t fully a skateboard magazine at that point, they had a three or maybe four issue transition from
BMX Action Bike
to
R.A.D.
magazine. And it was very much at that point still what they called ‘action on alternative wheels’. They couldn’t just drop their BMX circulation and their advertisers and their fans. They needed to make this kind of mellow transition. But it became very obvious very quickly that the biggest interest for all of them was skateboarding, which was a bitter pill to swallow for a lot of the BMX enthusiasts. They got a lot of heat for it and still do actually, a lot of people felt really burned. But by the same token, there was this whole new aud- ience who were really into it all.
Ian Roxburgh cover artwork with black-and-white Xerox, type treatments and hand-drawn headlines. Issue 77, July 1989. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce
So
R.A.D.
magazine ran from 1987 to 1995, but interestingly the
R.A.D.
book that you’re working on now covers from before that, from the late ‘70s. Do you want to explain why that is?
Because I felt it was an important legacy. So a lot of the people that will have picked up
R.A.D.
magazine are probably the guys that picked up skateboards, because they’d seen Back to the Future and all that kind of thing. It’s a very specific age range. But me personally, and the people that made the magazine, Tim and other associates, we were of an earlier generation, and we had discovered skateboarding in the middle to late ‘70s. Tim had discovered it about that period, and it’s where the magazine was birthed in a way. That generation were the people that went on to make zines and went on to cut the first super-8 movies of UK skateboarding. So the first kind of media if you like, but that was a weird kind of underground zine-based media, but it was birthed from that late ‘70s scene. And I felt it was really important for the generation that maybe knew nothing about that, to just get an under-standing of it. And just to realise that there’s this legacy.
And these early photos will all be by Tim Leighton-Boyce?
Yes, he kind of was the only guy that wanted to be a professional photographer, that was really shooting consistently, and trying to document something in a concerted way. There were some very good photographers that worked at
Skateboard!
magazine, which finished in ‘79, and they all quit. They just saw themselves as jobbing, young photographers, and they obviously weren’t particularly in love with skateboarding, or not in love with it enough, to want to just go on and continue to document it. So they fell away, but Tim carried on.
John Farmer, backside lipslide, Oxford Road, Manchester, 1991. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce
I was told that actually Tim wasn’t even a skater himself.
That’s right.
And I heard that he’d have these slideshow viewing parties with the other skaters at
R.A.D.
of the photos he’d shot…
That’s right, well, this goes back a bit further… Actually the slideshow really is more in the ‘70s, so when he was learning I think he had a sort of built in insecurity about what he was doing, you know? Perhaps he wasn’t entirely sure of what it was he was capturing at first, but he was obviously enjoying capturing it, because he’d always been very interested in the idea of movement in space and architecture and how the human body interacts with those things. That was something that he was just into, so skateboarding encapsulated that perfectly for him. So in his process of learning how to photograph skateboarding, he would do these slideshows with some of the better skateboarders and they would go ‘oh, that’s a sick shot! That’s a lame shot.’ and get more of a sense of what was a more optimum capture or something like that. Perhaps because he wasn’t skating himself, he wasn’t as aware at that time of what that kind of decisive moment in a skateboard manoeuvre actually
is. But strangely enough, it is my theory that we as skateboarders have all learned what those decisive moments are because of the skateboard photographers. They’re the guys that have caught the peak action moment and showed us what it is actually.
I think you’re right.
One of Tim’s great strengths, and something that other photographers have said, is that they wished they’d had half his curiosity, as Tim would turn around and shoot the other shit that was going on in the background. Most guys are just focused on the tricks and action. That’s a great gift that Tim’s viewpoint has given us.
Left to right: Marc Bultitude, Simon Evans and Matt Stuart, 1991. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce
So at what point did you work at
R.A.D.
as a designer in that timeline?
I was the third designer, and really only there for about a year in the very early ‘90s.
But you were very active within the skate scene in London…
Yeah… I mean I’d known Tim since I was pretty much a kid. I guess we all knew Tim, or anybody in London at that time who was remotely engaged with skateboarding knew Tim, because he was around taking pictures. Then, at one point, he had a very short tenure involved with the English Skateboard Association, and I’d worked with him on putting together a European contest at Crystal Palace, as I ran a ramp there. And so I would say I was very much involved in the London scene at that time.
So this leads to another question… How did you kind of become the custodian of the
R.A.D.
archive and so personally involved with all this?
Partly because Tim trusted me with his material and partly because at the time, when
I started working on this book project, I had space to take the archive out of Tim’s storage. And I very quickly saw how wonderful it was. I was sort of reminded of just how much stuff was there and that it needed to be organised in some way. I felt that we needed to be organised in a kind of narrative way with a start, a middle and an end, and with a timeline. And just getting my head back into that time and place suddenly got me organising it.
Mark Gonzales, boneless, Latimer Road, London, 1987. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce
And so by doing that, did the idea of making a book arise?
The idea of the book came first, I think we’d sat down as a group, and when I say we, I mean a small group of the main photographers of the first couple of years of
R.A.D.
magazine along with Tim had sat down and I mean, this is insane, but this was probably 20 years ago. I think not long after Dogtown and Z-Boys came out we were like, ‘hey, how come these guys get to tell their stories?’ And we’re like, ‘we got good stories, too!’ We knew Tim had this insane archive and we knew all these other guys had shoved their stuff under the table and forgotten about it. So we were like, ‘we need to get this out.’
I see…
But you know how these projects go, you spend six months on it, and then someone has a kid and then someone goes on vacation and suddenly like 12 years have slipped by with a couple of false starts, and then I think in 2016 roughly New Balance offered to help us out with a bit of money to kickstart the project and get it going again, which was a great incentive.
Suddenly I could actually spend some time on it without having to work on other projects and that helped move it ahead.
Fordham Park, New Cross, London, 1978. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce
But still, 2016 was eight years ago. What other hurdles have you had in making this book?
We tried self-publishing as an initial get go (with a Kick- starter campaign in 2018) and we were kind of over ambitious… But what that did do was give us an amazing sense of the support that was out there for it and the love for it. Honestly, the feedback and the way that people stepped in on that was quite amazing for us. We knew people would be interested, but we didn’t realise they’d be so full of warmth and good feelings. It was really extraordinary…
It really validated all the time and work you had put into it…
Absolutely. But it was also a little bit of a blow (when the Kickstarter didn’t raise the intended goal) and it was kind of embarrassing to go back with your tail between your legs and try and do it again. So I’ve spent the last few years mooching around looking for publishers and talking to people and that takes time if you’re not doing it all day long every day. The Pandemic happened, you know, that was two years out of everybody’s life, but by one chance or another, we were introduced to a publisher, ACC Art Books, who were super enthusiastic from the get go, and have been amazing in terms of making this book a reality. Because it’s such a difficult thing to do with all this old analogue material…
Tony Hawk, frontside rock, Copenhagen, 1988. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce
Oh I’m sure.
It’s not something publishers want to invest in digitising 300 to 400 old slides. It costs a fortune to do that.
You had an amazing list of contributors and people that worked for
R.A.D.
Would you talk about some of these people?
I mean, we had Luke Ogden, Spike Jonze… All the UK guys, you know, Skin Phillips, Paul Sunman from Slam City, Mike John, Vernon Adams, whose nom de plume was Jay Podesta… He was photographing all over the world… David Walsh from Aus- tralia… I mean, there were a ton of international photographers: Grant Brittain would submit pic- tures, Steve Keenan… Wherever Tim could spend budget, he would, and he knew that in order to make a magazine really relevant you needed to include the Tony Hawks of this world. And also the fact that Steve (Douglas) was bringing in all this incredibly current news from the States it was often accompanied with these great pictures that Chris Ortiz had shot. He was another big contributor. So yeah, the great and the good all kind of ran through the doors at some point. I mean, we were very privileged in that sense.
So what can we expect the
R.A.D.
book to include?
Essentially it will be a very British perspective. So I’ve just told you about all of those legendary American photographers, but we decided at this stage, and maybe there’s another stage later on, but at this stage we wanted to celebrate the British photographers and their viewpoint of this world. So whether they were shooting in the UK, or whether they’ve gone to Copenhagen or to California to shoot, it was skateboarding through their lens; we felt that it was important to let these guys have their voice.
READ AND DESTROY Skateboarding Through a British Lens ’78 –’95
will be available in July, 2024. Pre-order your copy
here
.
Curtis McCann, frontside melon, Meanwhile 2, London, 1991. Ph. Tim Leighton-Boyce

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 2, 2021
Tom Snape Interview
Switch nosebluntslide, Barcelona
I got a message on WhatsApp recently from Snape saying he has to do this
Free
interview soon and maybe I want to ask the questions. ‘Would be crack up as fuck!’ I said, ‘of course, what kind of questions?’ ‘Nothing too nerdy,’ he replied so we agreed on a Zoom piss-up to do the interview. But as he is in Spain and I’m in Australia the time difference doesn’t work too well for beers together and I wasn’t quite ready for a cold one at 8am, so he got the beer o’clock slot. I grew up in Sydney looking up to Snape and somehow ended up with him in my house for close to a month in Barcelona, which then led to him meeting my friends at Sour and eventually migrating to Barcelona himself. We’ve travelled around Europe and spent plenty of time together in Melbourne, been through benders and breakups so coming up with some questions was lightwork as I’ve seen first-hand the kind of shit that happens to Snape on the daily. Turning our 1.5-hour Zoom chat into a couple thousand words and trying not to incriminate him while trying to push the line a little wasn’t easy but we got there in the end. Anyway, here’s a bit of story time with Snappers.
Photography by Gerard Riera
Interview by Eli Wulfe Cheshire
Aight so… Let’s get straight into it… How was turning pro being cooped up in the crib while having Covid-19?
Tom Snape: That was fucking crack up. Pretty much from January 1st, it was just a string of shit luck. The last little bit of that string of shitty bad luck, Gustav (Tønnesen) was having a barbecue at his house. Simon (Isaksson) turned up and he’s like, ‘oh, I was just with these guys and they have to stay in quarantine because they all have Covid.’ And obviously, we’re like, ‘OK, why did you come straight here if you were just with these people?’ Anyway, big party at Goose’s house that night. Monday after that weekend, Björn (Holmenäs) was feeling pretty sick, I remember sitting here being like ‘oh whatever Björn’s just hungover.’
Anyway, I fucking woke up randomly in the middle of the night feeling like shit and couldn’t get back to sleep, my heart was pumping, like racing. I got up, had a coffee, chilled for a bit and then crashed. Woke up and I felt fine. After that, I was like, ‘maybe I’ve got Covid or something.’
So I went, got a Covid test. Well, actually, it wasn’t that simple, you know…
Frontside 180 kickflip, Barcelona
Oh yes I do.
I went to this clinic where you can pay to get an antigen test, which is the one where they stick the swab up your nose. They’re like, ‘it’s going to cost you €120 blah blah’, fuck that. So I went to the hospital where my private health covers me.
They were like; ‘you’re not going to be able to get a test until Monday when the clinic opens.’ I start to snap, I’m like, ‘fuck this shit, I’m trying to do the right thing and everyone’s making it fucking impossible to find out.’
So back to the public hospital right next to my house, the one I avoid because they’re the ones who misdiagnosed me for a broken wrist and fucking burst appendix. They’re like, ‘you don’t have a health care card? We’re not serving you.’
I snapped, ‘I’m not fucking going anywhere until you give me the Covid test.’ They’re like, ‘okay.’ I did the test, came back, ‘yeah, you have Covid.’ Sick. This is maybe a week before my 30th, but now I’ve got Covid so obviously I can’t really have a 30th birthday party, on paper.
The day of my birthday, I get a knock on the door and it’s Björn and Sami (Seppala) dressed in fuckin’ hazmat suits. They’re holding a board but it’s graphic facedown and has all these croissants and candles on it. I’m just like, ‘oh fuck, they’re just being funny cunts, legends, they just brought me a bunch of tasty pastries to start my day off, my miserable fucking quarantine birthday day off.’
Everyone’s standing awkwardly, like, are you gonna flip the board over? And I see Emil (Andersson) in the corner filming. ‘OK, I think I know what’s going on here.’ So I flip the board and croissants go all over the floor. Björn’s like, ‘oh that’s a pity, they’re such nice croissants.’ Sami poured me up a Mimosa, which was pretty great, that was really nice of them.
But it’s funny when Björn said ‘oh it’s a pity that you poured all the croissants on the floor’ Johannes (Dereuddre), my other flatmate, was filming above in the stairwell when they walked up with the boards and the hazmat suits.
When Björn knocked on the door he tried lighting the candles on the croissants and fucking drops the board and croissants over the floor in the stairwell. It’s probably mopped once a week and everyone’s walking through there. The pavement in Barcelona is pretty much just covered in shit; it was pretty much just shit ground. I dropped them in the house where I know the feet that have come through and we keep it somewhat clean. He fucking says ‘oh pity
YOU
dropped them on the floor.’ Honestly, thanks Johannes for the video evidence. Obviously would’ve been nice to have a party with everyone but it’s fucking shit times.
It was good. Later that day my mum sent me a bunch of food she’d ordered from a supermarket over here. So I had a little barbecue, plus I’m pretty sure Björn and everyone else had Covid anyway. I got pretty pissed up and it was good times, that was my little quarantine pro party. A week later we wanted to film a little skit to go with the pro board because the original skit was going to be me answering the door, but that went to shit. So we had to re-film something. I was super hungover that day, Emil’s like, ‘I think Dustin’s (Dollin) in town.’ I thought it would be pretty crack up if he came and gave me my pro board for the skit. Then I passed out on the couch and woke up a few hours later, missed calls from Dustin, a message from Sami: ‘Dustin’s downstairs, we’re filming the clip now.’
So, I got my shit together, went down, and we did that random wheelchair thing and had a fat party in the office.
Was Dustin behaving?
Well, he had to crash at our house, because he had a little problem with where he was staying. At the party, he asked me for the keys to my apartment above the office to go and crash while we kept going until like 7am. It’s funny, because every time I used to crash at his house in the States, he would take pride in being the last one to go to sleep. And he was pretty good at it. I guess the tables have turned. But other than that, he was on pretty good behaviour.
Switch varial heelflip, Cardedeu
Okay enough skate talk, if people want to hear about that they can go check your Bunt or some shit… Tell us about your street boxing career.
My street boxing career?!?! Pfff, oh man I couldn’t fucking street box my way out of a paper bag bro.
What happened on New Year’s Eve?
Oh fuck, yeah, that was really bad for my career… We were all at Christina’s house, she was having a New Year’s party, and I was trying to take it easy, not go too wild. So I left around 1am, I was pretty boozy, so it’s quite blurry.
I was going to Gustav’s house because he was having another party. From how I remember it, I was walking down the street fucking looking at the ground. Maggot. These guys start trying to have a go at me. I felt like they were trying to roll me, classic Barcelona stuff.
I guess I was like ‘fuck you’ and got a bit cheeky, then one of them tried to fucking kick me in the head! I put my arms up and his foot connected with my forearm. Arm was fucked. After that, I’m drunk like ‘lets go blah blah blah.’ They just kind of left. I remember the feeling in my arm after that happened: my arm was done. Anyway, lucky because if they actually came back at me, I would’ve got fucking smoked and probably all my shit taken.
I went to Goose’s for a bit, my arms really starting to fucking hurt, so I’m like, ‘fuck this, I’m going home.’
I woke up the next day with an ice pack strapped to my forearm with my belt. It was like 10/10 pain… I remember this pain because the first time I went to the States, I broke my ankle the third day I was there, this pain reminded me of that. I go to the hospital to get an X-ray and see what the deal is.
Obviously, it was not that simple because you know, whatever, went to the hospital, I was like, ‘yeah, look, my arm’s really fucking bad.’ Get an X-ray and five hours later or whatever, the doctor comes into the waiting room and he’s like, ‘your arm!’, he’s grabbing it, fucking he’s shaking it. And he’s like, ‘no es broken! No es broken!’ I’m like, ‘Ow! What the fuck!’ So he’s obviously looked at the X-ray, ‘no es broken!’
Whatever… He just gives me a sling and tells me to chill. So I go home. The next 11 days, it’s not getting better, it’s starting to feel worse. My whole hand’s swollen up and shit. I went to the public hospital because I have private health insurance but it ran out just before Christmas.
I tried renewing it and sent an email then, obviously forgot about it… Then this shit happens. I need to go to hospital. And I’m like Fuck… So I look through my emails, sure enough, the email hadn’t sent. During those 11 days, I sent the email, got my health insurance and went to the private hospital. They do an X-ray, they don’t even say anything. I can see them preparing, wetting up the plaster and shit… I’m like, oh, it’s broken? ‘Yeah…’ I can see the X-ray on the screen. And you know, generally with the distance between the desk and the bed it’s hard to properly see what’s on the computer screen, but even from there I could see the fracture on the X-ray! That fucking cunt from the first hospital shaking my arm, ‘no es broken, no es broken!’ It’s like proper fucking fractured so then I get a cast.
Backside tailslide, Barcelona
It was a quick recovery though wasn’t it?
By the time I got that cast taken off, I had about a week or two of skating, then I got fucking Covid and had to stay home, and that’s why we’re doing this meeting on my fuckin’ phone because I fucking broke my laptop as well.
How’d you break the laptop? I remember it already had a green glitch on the screen from when you were in bed with someone and accidentally kicked it off.
This time I was not in bed with anyone, I was just fucking crippled, trying to make my bed with one arm and just flicked the duvet with the laptop hidden in the sheets and it just went flying bro. The whole screen was done.
Broken arm, stuck inside with Covid and can’t even watch shit on the lappy, ha ha ha!
Yeah, good times.
What happened at the Hardies x adidas night in Sydney?
Fucking, I don’t even know how that started. I don’t know if someone was getting cheeky with me or if I was getting cheeky to someone; I was trying to fight someone and it was raining outside. I went to throw a punch and I just fucking slipped bro, fell straight on my back. I can’t really remember. Maybe you know what happened?
Switch ollie, Barcelona
Nah, I don’t think anyone does.
What happened with the poster guy in Malmö with Jack Thompson?
(Laughs) Oh, fuck…. Come on man. (Laughs) Well, I guess we were outside a bar and there’s this big cylinder type structure that people tape posters around. We were climbing it, someone like climbed in to take a piss in the middle of it. We started just ripping all the posters off and you know, those things are like fucking inches thick, poster after poster, anyway, then this fucking Richie Jackson looking guy just comes over like, ‘Why are you doing that?’ getting real aggressive and shit, trying to square up, or maybe that’s just what I saw in my drunken state. I don’t know, I just fucking jabbed him in the face and he kind of backed off. Then some guy was calling the cops, we just gapped it, was really nothing, it was quite stupid. But fuck that guy, he was coming up tryna start shit. I just gave him a little fucking tap, a little warning.
‘Lil love tap
.
Before I probably slipped over and landed on my ass again or something. So yeah as you say, fuckin’ street boxing career as if bro.
What about when you punched Jack Thompson?
Yeah, I mean, he deserved it… Probably. I did a sober October, fucking clean my liver out, whatever. Last year after my appendix burst, I was getting gnarly stomach pains. I went on a trip for a month with Jack and Barney (Page) to Stockholm, Copenhagen then Malmö; it was a pretty boozy trip. My stomach was fucking really hurting all the time. Sami was like, ‘yeah, I’m not drinking this month.’ I’m like, fuck, I need to do this because my stomach is fucked still from my surgery, I wasn’t helping the situation either. So you know did a fucking little month sober woo-woo healthy guy fuckin’ blah blah bullshit. The first day back on it was Jack’s 30th birthday… Blackout. Then yeah it was just like two months of constantly blacking out, it was really not cool. I would wake up in the morning, ‘Oh god, what happened last night??’ And it was generally something kind of bad. ‘You fucking ripped the office door off the hinges’, or, ‘you and so and so got in a tussle’, and then like telling Björn his mom’s his dad. All this fucking dumb shit. Jack getting punched in the face, I don’t even remember that… Thinking about it he probably deserved it, I don’t know, but we’re just a bunch of idiots. Fuck I’m the butts.
Didn’t you give Uncle Jesse a tune-up too?
Jacks 30th… OK, so the first day drinking after my little sober month. We went skating around Besos. Gustav was doing kickys over the rail while we were drinking a bottle of Fireball. Alright, Jack’s 30th, all the bars are closed. We have a curfew. The only place we can go is the Sour office and have a lock-in there. I got him a bottle of Hennessy. The last thing I remember was Jack trying to drop in from the office into the mini ramp on a surfboard. I woke up in my room, with this feeling that it didn’t go well last night. My bin bag is all over my room, my door’s open, there’s bits of blood on the wall and shit, it’s a fucking absolute mess. Eventually, I get up, walk out, OK, maybe I just went upstairs and went to sleep, maybe forgot how to talk for a few hours or something. I don’t know. But I woke up and I convinced myself that nothing bad happened. My flatmate Emil who doesn’t drink told me everything that he saw. He wasn’t downstairs when the thing with Jesse (Olguin) happened. No one really saw I guess. Jesse and I got into a little scuffle. Maybe I started punching him in the head or something, I can’t remember what fucking happened. Then Björn saw me being an idiot. We were all being absolute muppets. Eventually, Björn got me in a headlock. Apparently, I went full Neanderthal mode, I couldn’t walk. He dragged me upstairs. Emil could hear me trying to get my key in the door for like five minutes. Finally, I get in, I just fucking turn around to Björn and I’m like, ‘your mum’s your dad’ and he fucking slammed the door in my face. Thankfully, Björn’s mom is not his dad, it didn’t cause any offence, and I still went pro, so… Chur.
Gap to noseslide pop-out, Granollers
What happened at Area 2.0?
We were all skating there, classic Melbourne shit, crew deep, security guards told us to leave. There was probably like 20 of us and two of them, fuck it, keep skating. One of the Seccies starts pushing around some of the smaller younger cats, I just fucking pushed him and he went tumbling over. They call the cops, I went down to another spot nearby, I booked an Uber on my phone, hid in the corner, jumped in and got a ride home. I remember driving past Kirksy (Jack Kirk) and Callum (Paul), like five cop cars with them or some shit. Fuck I was such an idiot. But fuck that guy! Pushing little kids around, what a dickhead.
What about when you got stabbed on Oxford Street?
Just after I got my first section 10 (good behaviour bond) in Australia, we got in a bit of a rumble on Oxford Street. I was being a good boy; we were at Brighton Bar in Sydney. Fucking 12 of us lived in this five-bedroom house. One of the housemates, Pete, starts mouthing off to some guy who then smashes a bottle swinging it around. I’m grabbing Pete like, ‘let’s fucking go.’
The guy swung it at me, jabbed me in the arm and then got Pete in the neck. The bouncers from the bar put him up against the wall, somewhat citizen’s arrest style. I’m standing there, my arm, it’s like pissing out blood, I’m looking around like this is fucking weird, pretty gross. Mitta (Rest in Peace) the bar manager, came out dressed in drag and patched my arm up. I saw Pete getting rolled into an ambulance. Eventually, I go get stitched up at the hospital. I was really bummed, this is when I just started getting stuff from adidas Australia, I’d been given a store credit, I went into the shop and I got this adidas Method Man T-shirt, I was wearing that. And the cops came in and questioned me; the shirt had blood on it so they had to take it for evidence. Fuck… I just got this sick Method Man shirt. Anyway, left the hospital, I obviously had no shirt because they took it, so they just let me take the hospital gown I was wearing, covered in blood. I look like a psychopath. Anyway, I made it home, seen all the boys on the balcony drinking goon sacks; I guess we just got back on it.
Switch backside 180 kickflip, Barcelona
You had a bit of a Wallapop fail recently?
Oh, yes, I had this jacket and someone messaged me for it on Wallapop (a Spanish app for selling second-hand items). I met the person at the door, fucking cash in hand, sweet. Go inside, put the money on the table and just go about my day. Later I went to go grab the cash to put in my drawer or something, I felt it and was like, hang on. There’s something weird about this money, did I just get fucking hustled? I’m looking at a €10 note and I pull another €10 note out of my wallet and I compare the two and shiny thing’s all fucked. On the side of the note, it says ‘movie money, not legal tender…’
How much did you sell the jacket for?
I think it was like €60… Fuck it, good on them, I hope they enjoy that jacket. They got me good.
Didn’t you get too stoned in Morocco and thought you were going to get kidnapped?
This is before I came to Barcelona to stay with you. I’d been in Portugal on this little two-week filming trip for adidas Australia. I didn’t research anything about Morocco, but I went to Casablanca. It was whatevs, it was also Ramadan, so it was quite hard. I found a French-style restaurant, the staff are giving me shots and shit, which is quite nice because during Ramadan it’s hard to get alcohol. When I paid, I asked if they knew where to find hash. One of them was like, ‘meet me after my shift tomorrow and we go smoke some.’ I completely forgot about it. The next day I get this call, he’s like, ‘are we going to go smoke or what?’ So I went and met up with him. We jump in a cab and boost off, I don’t know where the fuck I am, or where we’re going. We pull up somewhere and he takes me down some dark ass ally, hands me some hash. Obviously in Aus and NZ, we don’t really get hash, I’m like the fuck do I even do with this shit? So he rolls mine up. We blaze one each; I don’t really smoke much so at this point I’m flying.
He bumps into his mates, they invite us to smoke some more at theirs. So we go into this apartment building, but down to the underground car park. I’m pretty blazed just cruising, not really paying attention. We just jump in the back of this van… I’m sitting in the back corner, the windows are blacked out, one guy looks like he’s guarding the door, and they’re passing me joint after joint. After a while paranoia kicks in, I’m like, ‘hang on… the fuck am I doing? Where the fuck am I?’ I had this feeling of panic, there’s like fucking six big dudes. I’m thinking ‘if shit turns then what’s my escape route?’ As I said, I wasn’t paying any attention when I came in. Anyway, I guess they turned out to be all good because they could have taken me in a second. I went back to my Airbnb; the same guy asked if I wanted to come break the fast with his family the next day. ‘You know what, I’m good.’ To be honest, it would have been fine, have a nice meal, but I just fucking freaked out a little bit.
Gap to switch backside 50-50, Sabadell
What about when you tried surfing a cab and ended up in a police line-up?
This was two days before I was going to the States for the second time. We’d been at the club. It was pretty early in the morning, we got a cab back to Pork’s house, pay for the cab, get out, and the cab starts reversing out of the street. I’m like ‘fuck it’ and try to jump onto the boot to ride it down the street. Jumped on the boot and it was like frosty, so I slipped and went straight through the back windscreen, landed in the back seat. Fucking boosted, idiot, ran straight back into the house. There was a big crew of us, all chilling. A fucking cop comes knocking on the apartment door. The local police are already pretty familiar with Porky who lives there. The cops are like, ‘look, we’ll forget about the weed stink in here, we just want whoever broke the cab window.’ I was in one of the bedrooms pretending to be asleep. Before that, I swapped clothes with (Alex) Powell. We also both had real fucking long hair at the time, same colour. Anyway, cops come in, ‘we’re looking for someone with long brown hair.’ First they see Powell, then one of the cops walks past the bedroom and sees me ‘oh, we got another one in here. You’re under arrest!” I was kind of pretending to be half asleep, turned around and put my hands in handcuffing position. Also, someone had just managed to hide a quarter pound of weed in the bin right next to where the cop was standing. At this point they notice Powell and I, very similar looking, also the clothing switch threw them off a bit. There were a couple of other guys with brown hair too, they’re like fuck it, all of you in the kitchen, we’re having a police line-up.  The taxi driver’s looking at me and Powell real fucking confused. And then one of the cops looks into Pork’s room; he also had long brown hair at the time. So they grab him out of bed, he’d actually been passed out the whole time. They line us all up in the fucking kitchen with two cops and the cab driver, the cab driver couldn’t make his mind up so the police lady’s like. ‘alright, you guys are free to go.’
Man, that brought back some memories.
This is going to be an absolute fucking mission putting this into letters, you get to kick back and relax now. How’s my bike?
Bro I was fucking riding it down this gnarly hill and I put the bike down at the bottom and it literally just popped into two pieces. Björn got it welded back together and put brakes on it. It’s still kicking.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 8, 2018
CPH Open 2018: Amsterdam
Words and photos by Sam Clark. Make sure you scroll all the way down for the full gallery.
Oski getting chased by Hugo Boserup.
I’m sitting in the same position on the bus I wrote my last update from. Now on its way to Berlin. Scanning through my photos trying to recall the last few days as everything seems to be one big blur. The never ending good time that is Copenhagen Open continues..
One particular situation that springs to mind was walking up the stairs to the deck of the ferry during our journey from Copenhagen to Amsterdam I could hear the voice of Juan Carlos calling “guys don’t leave without me, I wont find the bus again”
No more than an hour later, Germany was in sight and the feeling of sea sickness was creeping in. I made my way below deck to get on the bus and continue the ten hour journey to Amsterdam. Not without a quick roll call to discover non other that Juan Carlos was missing and his passport and money was still on the bus. We all laughed hard at first but the realisation this could be a serious problem soon set in. Juan had decided to visit the toilette as the ferry was coming into dock and got locked inside. He must have been stressing balls!
With port control saying there is nothing we can do and that we need to move the bus we all thought that would be the last we saw of him. The doors were literally closing when we saw him come running our way from a distance, on the wrong side of the fence that he quickly scaled and we were back were on our way.
He made it!
Amsterdam had three events lined up and a two trick line style contest in a park under some trees was first up. The beers were flowing and the smell of Amsterdam’s finest was in the air. Everyone battled with the questionable hight of the obstacle but spirits were high!
”Why is this ledge so small”?
Then some boats took everyone to the Steve Olson invitational, at Marnix Bowl. Yes another boat ride! This time I was late and missed it… But caught up real quick after everyone abandoned ship because the boat ran out of fuel.
The bowl session was insane, Jacopo Carozzi came up first but everyone was killing it!
From there it was off to Noord Skatepark for some live band action and the death race with a gnarly jump ramp ending into a dark parking lot.
View Gallery | 16 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  March 14, 2017
Muckmouth piece about ETN
“Most people are quietly content in the knowledge that skateboarders will never buy into this nonsense, we are way too smart to let that happen; they presume it to be a flash in the pan that nobody will remember like a pussy grabbing president, but I’m old enough to remember skate parks before scooters… this is how it starts.”
Just read it…

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 7, 2020
Hackney Bumps
The Hackney Bumps was an underused London skatepark first built in 1986. It was rough, there was junk and broken glass all around and the drains were clogged with leaves so there would be massive puddles. Recently a few skaters took it into their own hands to fix this… Watch above Hold Tight Henry’s
Bumps & Grind
documentary, read the interviews below with locals Esther Sayers and Kyle Wilson, and most importantly, please donate to
Hackney Bumps GoFundMe
so that the bumps refurbishment can be completed and be enjoyed by all in the years to come.
Interviews by Greg King
Esther Sayers Interview
The story of how you started skateboarding isn’t very typical.. Can you tell us a bit about that?
Esther Sayers
: What d’y mean?!! Erm, OK. So, I’d learned to ski late (aged 38) and loved it. Returning home to Hackney after a ski trip once I took my kids to Victoria Park on an early spring Saturday afternoon. We’d bought my son his first board that morning and we met his cousin there, my daughter had got a board from someone, don’t remember where. I sat on the bench with the other parents and watched. We were there for hours. At the end of the day once it had quietened out I asked for a go. I was incredibly tentative but managed going down the flat bank first try. I loved the feeling. It was like skiing/riding but without snow – inner city concrete mountains. In a few weeks for my birthday my family bought me (cringe) a longboard. It was brilliant to start on because balance was easy and big wheels meant I could ride on any surface.
You learned to skate at Hackney Bumps skatepark didn’t you? Why was that?
With the bumps just down the road, five minutes away, it was perfect. I needed somewhere close so no travel time. I work full time and have a family, I’m time poor. I wanted to skate everyday so maximising time spent skating was important. Skateparks are public spaces and they are coded as such. The youthful, male, cool image of skateboarding did not suit a 47-year-old mother of three who was shaky and rubbish at it. I needed spaces that were empty to literally find my feet tentatively and privately. I’d either go to Vicky at 7am or to the bumps. I’d started skate school at house of vans and was learning to kickturn. I needed soft ramps. The bumps was perfect to practise. Most important part of learning to skateboard is time on the board, repeating the same thing over and over. At the bumps there was no pressure from a load of others waiting for a turn. Even if there were people there it was a nice scene and enough space to skate alongside one another. Every time I went I would be joined by a group of ids who all wanted a go on my board. I did a lot of impromptu lessons down there. I think excitement about the bumps ad skateboarding started to grow at that time. I only found out later that you and Nick were going there too and encouraging kids. Crazy that our paths never crossed then.
The best line I had was from a 4-year-old girl who climbed up the fence in the play park to watch me before exclaiming ‘I didn’t know mummies could do that!’ – she does now!
I’ve met a few other girl skaters down there quietly practicing too. It’s a friendly, community space and that really matters.
If The Bumps had been revamped when you started – new smooth resurfaced bumps and also contemporary skatepark ramps/obstacles – how do you think that might have changed your experience?
Tricky, on the one hand it might have been off putting for me if it were busier. I benefitted from the fact that I rode a cruiser after the long board (a Zflex) and so the rough surface kept others away but was fine for me. However, as soon as I was ‘proper’ skateboarding – with a lolly stick board and a kick tail to learn to kick turn I would have liked it smoother. A mini quarter down there and a ramp or a small kicker would have transformed my learning. A long mani pad to learn to drop off would’ve made a difference to the speed of my learning too. I’ve been held back from learning quite a lot of new tricks because the only places I can are Barking (a car drive and an entrance fee to get in) or Charlton also a car ride. Clissold and Vicky are great for bowls but they don’t have small quarter ramps or any of that stuff. Walthamstow is too busy.
What do you think are the obstacles/barriers to starting skating when you’re older?
Feeling silly, an outsider, skate obstacles that are too high, too difficult, too challenging. I take less risks physically than someone younger might. Falling takes longer to recover from so my progress is gradual, incremental. Heroic skateparks with macho big bowls were no use to me (bloody love Vicky bowl now though, as you know!) but not then. Soft transitions, cruising, carving, simply learning to ride – bumps was perfect for this. I’ve always thought it a generous and innately feminine space because of the generosity of it’s form. It’s like some in Malmö I’ve recently discovered that feel like you are literally skating across a giant body.
As an active member of the Hackney Bumps group what do you think we can do to help older and/or less active people overcome these obstacles and encourage them to use the skatepark?
Being there, us being friendly, encouraging parents and carers to have a go – offering lessons and encouragement – the loan of skate and safety equipment. Building a culture of acceptance. Skate culture is good at doing this but actively encouraging is going one stage further. Lessons dedicated to adults. Supporting kids to teach their adults. Teaching adults to teach their kids would be a great way to encourage. Give them the skills to support their kids in the early stages by getting them to feel what it is like. I reckon a lot would get into it that way.
* A bar?!
So what do you think needs doing to sort out The Bumps skatepark?
Smoother. Sort the cracks. A mini quarter, a curb, a curb height mani, I’d like a small kicker, like really small (20cm) but maybe that’s just me cos I’m a scaredy cat! I’d also like a bigger drop in ramp to build speed. Some of those matal plates that form a gap – I won’t be ollieing the gap anytime soon but I’d like dropping off the side and getting progressively higher. Water fountain. Somewhere to store a brush, a mop, bin bags so we can keep it tidy and skateable. Lights – in the winter it’s already dark when my kids get home from school this is so frustrating as we are all desperate to skate. With some lighting, maybe that goes off before too late, we would be able to skate in the late afternoon and evening. That way winter wouldn’t be so sedentary.
Is there anything else you want to add?
My kids have all gone to Clapton Park Nursery and Rushmore Primary School on Chatsworth Road and I know a lot of families locally – from there and Daubeney and Kingsmead. The buzz that has been created by this refurb project is palpable. The lessons in the summer led to so much more useage of the bumps. Every time I went down in the late summer there were two or three other families already there and using it, often with adults and children skating together. Dads brushing the dust off old boards and getting out there and occasionally some mums too. I think we could really develop that and rather than having parents sitting on the bench and watching get them involved either by physically supporting their kids or rolling themselves – that’s the best kind of support -learning together.
Kyle Wilson, ollie, Hackney Bumps. Ph. Greg King
Kyle Wilson Interview
You live really close to Hackney Bumps, did you start skating there?
Kyle Wilson
: I started skating around the corner from the bumps, this little flatground spot I found out about from some friends.
Why was that? Was the surface of the skatepark too much of a problem?
Nah when I first started skating it wasn’t so much of an issue, I didn’t know any other skateparks so I didn’t know there were smoother nicer parks that were about. But not many people went to The Bumps.
How long ago did you start skating?
It’s been eight years, and I’ve been living in the Kingsmead Estate 13 years.
So even before you skated you’d see the skatepark?
Yeah because right opposite there’s the adventure playground, and I’d go there loads as a kid, and see people skating the skatepark.
Is that something that got you into skating?
To be honest it was my friends who were my age who go me into it. I grew up skating with people in the Kingsmead, there was probably five of us that started skating, then over time they just kinda fizzled out ’til it was just me..
Ha ha I know that story. So if The Bumps had been revamped when you started, do you think that would have changed the local skate scene?
Ah yeah definitely, it would have helped us improve, more locals would have been interested in skating, we could have had a bit more of a local skate community you know what I mean?
I used to see you when you were a kid, all the time skating at that DIY skatepark in Hackney Wick…
Frontside Gardens! That was the place!
That’s the one. So how come you skated Frontside Gardens all the time?
All my friends skated Frontside, it was nice place to skate and learn. And then Andy [Willis] the guy who ran the place was so safe. Honestly if we can get in touch with Andy, he’d be more than happy to help out with The Bumps. To all us growing up he was like.. you know the older skater bringing everyone up. We’d come there and just be loud annoying kids and he taught us the right way about skateboarding, to skate and be chill, to be cool with people. Ahh it’s been such a long time.
I know, four or five years Frontside has been gone now, and there just aren’t many skateparks in Hackney, you’ve got Victoria Park…
That’s actually Tower Hamlets.
Oh yea, well then just Clisshold Park.
Recently there’s that DIY skatepark underneath the bridge, you been there?
Yeah but that’s there’s a huge chunk of concrete at the bottom of all the ramps.
I know, we were talking about it the other day, they’ve built so much stuff but it’s only really any good for BMXers. From first glance you’re like oh that’s a sick skatepark, but you go over to it and realise you can’t really skate it.
You’re one of the only people I’ve seen skate Hackney Bumps who can really launch off the big bump… What’s the secret to getting the speed?
Oooh ha ha… You just gotta run, jump on, and pump the shit outta that little bump before you hit the big bump. I dunno, It’s rough, but it’s a fun park, growing up in Hackney a lot of the street spots were rough, you can’t really get away from it so I got used to it.
So what do you think needs doing to sort out The Bumps skatepark?
Well the surface needs to be smooth, that’s the main thing that stops people from coming very much. But there’s so much potential, maybe some DIY ramps and obstacles, there’s a lot of space. If it was smooth and had something to keep the flow going, that would be perfect, now it’s just barriers stopping you at the edges.
Is there anything else you want to say?
Yeah, I know so many people who really want to see Hackney Bumps revamped, I feel like we’ve got a lot of support, and we’re at a place where we need proper funding. For ages, literally, it’s been overlooked. Polish it and it’ll be amazing. It’ll be banging. We gotta make it happen G!
Ha ha nice one Kyle!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 14, 2021
Shelf Life with Kyle Beachy
Are you familiar with Kyle Beachy? You may remember him as the guy that wrote
this article
… Well first and foremost Kyle is a skateboarder, but also he’s a published author, an English and creative writing professor, a
podcaster
, a St. Louis native (now living in Chicago) and genuinely just a great human being. I met Kyle at
Pushing Boarders in 2018
and we’ve kept in touch ever since. So when we received a few books in written by skateboarders I thought, ‘why not have Kyle review these for us? He’d be perfect for this!’ After a few discussions with Kyle and an on point illustration by James Jarvis ‘Shelf Life’ was born. In what we hope to be a continuing feature on our website Kyle will review a couple skate related books and one non-skate related book he personally recommends. As publishers of a print skateboard magazine we encourage you to rest your eyes from your screens just a little bit, put the smartphone away and check out some print media for a change. How about reading one of these books? 😉  Take it away Kyle…
Shelf Life #1 by Kyle Beachy
Top of Mason
by Walker Ryan
I am a fan of Walker Ryan’s self-published first novel, though not for the usual reasons. It’s not for Ryan’s commitment to language—the writing is uneven, there’s little we see or hear that is not also explained, and about Henry, our hero, the most descriptive thing we might say is that he lacks imagination. But there’s a velocity to it all, a momentum you’ve got to admire. Once the heartbreak plot gets moving we’re on a one-way hillbomb straight into trouble. Henry gets concussed and next we know he’s smoking crack and bottoming-out in a pissy corner of a skatepark, overdressed and humiliated. But soon—like, within an hour, maybe?—he lands a high-pressure switch inward-heel at the request an old friend, Dev, and we’re back in business. Now the dream clicks into gear, and even if all feels a bit familiar, Ryan succeeds in charging this story with enough anxiety that you’re concerned even as you’re pretty certain where it’s all heading. Most importantly, you’re still reading.
I did wonder at least once whether Henry is only fortunate or, I guess, deceased—we might easily read everything that follows his very bad fall as the afterlife of a heartbroken and well intentioned, if simple, bloke. If he is alive, then he’s blessed as hell: the concussion, the crack smoking (which he enjoys very much!), the drug runners out for vengeance, and an endless cascade of shame all leave marks but fail to stop our Henry. I meanwhile couldn’t stop wondering about the festering wound on his hand, which, in another novel, a more labored and self-serious novel, might have turned into a treatise on embodiment and the frailty of the human form. But Ryan, a living breathing professional, knows skateboarding extremely well, and more than that, he trusts it. In his hands, skateboarding is only ever itself, and for that
Top of Mason
is a novelty, an accomplishment, and a relief.
No Beer on a Dead Planet
by Jono Coote
The travelogue is the natural form for skateboard writing, or perhaps I’ve got that backwards. In any case, about two-thirds of the way through this perfectly titled, slim and spellbinding volume published by the tiny and honorable
Red Fez Books
, Jono Coote describes the darkening sky over the suburbs of Melbourne “holding its breath” as he hurries to wrest a skate session from “the jaws of the inevitable exhale.” Ours, Coote knows, is a world chock full of shapes and light and sounds worth noticing—like the park coping that “barks like a rabid hyena”—and he is omnivorous with his attention. Along the Eastern Coast of that distant, southern continent, Coote moves with equal parts humility and curiosity. The only times his writing gets out hand occur in the thrall of the natural wonders he’s discovered on some hike or boat ride or stretch of coastal drive. And can you blame him?
The book’s perfect title comes from the blackboard of a pub in Hobart. It is at once a fact and a terrible, arresting thought. This is where we are now—we’ve achieved a point in history that tautologies are warnings. Fires rage across 25 million acres in New South Wales. Systemic racism is as deeply embedded in Australian culture as any, every, in the world. Also: methamphetamines. Coote, meanwhile, opens his book with a land acknowledgment and makes a point to name the racism and cite aboriginal history he and his partner Alyce encounter on their travels.
He is not, let’s say, hopeful for the future. One of Coote’s alarms, however, rings flat, or fails even to muster a ring at all. This is that aging skater’s lament about parents training children toward competitive skateboarding, reducing our meaningless and baffling activity to “something you can, eventually, win at.” How ridiculous, how self-evidently stupid this concern sounds with Coote’s wonderful book resting lightly inside our hands.
Wild Swims
by Dorthe Nors
I met Dorthe Nors at an old, brick, and properly named manor house in rural Jutland. The manor is owned by the nation of Denmark, and nearby, on the estate, are the ruins of four prior structures that have shared the current manor’s name. Nors was at home in this place. I would go out walking and get lost immediately, though not unpleasantly. There was a chapel and a graveyard and a massive wall of uncut timber, swaths of forest with footpaths that wound through ravines and ran up and down wooded hillsides and then suddenly opened into great fields of heather, silent and waving in the breeze.
The tension between Jutland and cosmopolitan Copenhagen runs through all of Nors’s work—which is among the most compelling and distinctive fiction being written today—even the stories set far from Denmark. She believes in two things, at least: privacy and contradiction. In her last collection, Karate Chop, a narrator notes of a man that, “He wishes both of them well. Yet he also wants to do them harm.” That the prior does not preclude the latter is one of those persistent human mysteries that make vital the practice of literature. In Wild Swim, we see the faint glow coming from behind a tree in the yard, “but it’s probably no one,” she tells us.
The technique is a kind of existential understatement balanced with an almost skaterly love of mischief. Nobody alive withholds and apportions information as effectively as Nors. Reading her can feel like standing alone in a field as, slowly, a house is erected around you. Half of the house, the bricks, are called information. The other half, the timber, is called character. And as you feast upon Nors’s clear and polished sentences, you realize that, oops, both halves of this structure appear to be on fire, or at least smoldering, and also seem to be shrinking even as the house grows into its form. The effect of her stories is a pristine and often unnerving inevitability, a cutting to the bone, or rather several bones all at once.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  November 30, 2020
FTC Barcelona: POR FIN
With
FTC Barcelona
being one of the most established shops in Europe, based in possibly the most skated city in the world (and it being a fucking FTC), it’s easy to think that they wouldn’t have had to face the same challenges as other core shops, that they were somehow immune to everything our constantly mutating industry was putting everyone else through… Well they weren’t, and they even had their own set of separate challenges that at times had almost nothing to do with our beloved industry and its tendency to scream ‘support your local’ whilst whispering ‘can I get a discount’ every time it gets to the till.
Anyway if you’re reading this it’s because Julio Arnau’s shop just turned ten and that despite having had to adapt and rethink how he does business, FTC is still one of the pillars of Barcelona’s skate scene, constantly working on videos, helping with DIY projects and supporting generations of locals from Raul Navarro and the OG Sants heads all the way down to Pedro Attenborough, Sixsas and the MACBA kids. He can still be spotted boosting banging switch flips around the corner on his lunch break, still needs minimum five lurkers around him in the shop at all times and is still very much doing it For The City.
– Arthur Derrien
All photography by Roger Ferrero.
Ok let’s do this… You’re not originally from Barcelona right? When did you move there?
Julio Arnau: Yeah I’m originally for Tarragona, which is like one hour south of Barcelona. I used to come up every other weekend when I was like 15/16 and when I turned 19
I moved here properly. It was probably around ’98…
Was that before all the skate tourism had properly kicked in then?
Yeah I mean a few people would come and visit in the summer but it was nothing like today… The scene was much smaller. We’d only skate in a handful of places and we basically all knew each other. For me it was mainly Sants, but then there was already another small crew that would skate MACBA, a few guys that would skate Uni…  I think there were just two skate shops back then: one called Icara that was actually run by a skater and then this place called Free Sport that also sold snowboards, surfboards, rollerblades, bikes…
When would you say the influx of visiting skaters started then?
Maybe early 2000s? I have clips from like ’99 with MACBA still completely empty so it must have been a few years after that. It’s because of Anthony Claravall! Ha ha. He started coming in the late nineties to film for 411VM and would go back and tell everyone! And then yeah after 411 released that full Barcelona segment that’s when everyone was really like ‘Fuck we have to go!’ But at that point it was still mainly pros coming to film for a few weeks or something. There generally weren’t that many skaters from other countries living here, like how these days you have all these French, German, Swedish people doing all the telemarketing jobs just to be here and skate. That came another five or six years later I’d say… But who knows what’s going to happen now, maybe nobody’s ever coming back after this!
Julio Arnau, melon, 2016.
Were locals at all resentful when all this started happening?
I don’t know… For me it was always a bit different because I wasn’t actually from Barcelona. Like I felt at home in Sants but when I’d go anywhere else I was well aware that I wasn’t from the city. Plus I’d always be going around with people that were from other places anyway. My house back then was a fucking skate house with like ten people staying at all times… And since I’ve been living in Barca it’s always been like that for me, like I’ve always had people from other countries over. It is funny though how back then if five skaters were visiting from somewhere else, you’d know exactly who they were and would make sure you chatted to them, asked them where they were from and stuff. Now it’s impossible to keep up ha ha. I mean I have a skate shop now so I’m obviously not complaining here, ha ha, it’s just different.
Can you tell me a little bit about the
Nomad days
? Were you filming a lot with Enrique Mayor during that period?
Yeah… So as I said I was hanging out at Sants a lot during that period andbasically my homie Ivan started Nomad and I ended up skating for them with Pablo Dominguez, Raul Navarro, Petr Horvat, Luy-pa Sin… It was a bunch of us. Nomad had a really good moment; like the team was sick and they made a video… I never got super serious into filming for it though. And yeah Kike (Enrique Mayor) was definitely the main guy filming in Barcelona back then. Most of the old footage you’d see come out of Barca even before that was usually filmed by him.
Raul Navarro, backside 180 fakie 5–0, 2011.
Were you going on trips with them and stuff?
Yeah man! We even went on a skate trip to Russia!
No way?!
Yeah I think it was like 2006 or something. It was crazy… They had a distributor out there and the dude took us around St. Petersburg and Moscow. I remember this one demo we did where we had this weird VIP area with food and just loads of Vodka ha ha.
Just a few mellow bottles of vodka to get warmed up for the demo ha ha…
Yeah I remember thinking ‘are you serious?’ I think I probably landed one trick at that demo.
But the trip itself was really sick… In St. Petersburg in the summer it stays light outside forever like in Finland and the spots we skated were amazing… And they’re everywhere. It was definitely the most skate spots I’ve ever seen in one place.
Max Geronzi, backside 50-50, 2018.
And that’s coming from someone who lives in Barca… Were you getting paid to skate at that time or were you working?
No it was just like free boards and some free shoes.
I-Path?
Yep I-Path ha ha. Kenny Reed and those guys were here quite a lot and we were homies. So yeah I was definitely working… I had some pretty crazy jobs actually ha ha…
Go on…
One of them was doing electric maintenance at a nuclear power plant. That was a really good one, because I could basically work three months and then not work for like six you know… We were really living cheap back then. Like it was ten of us in the same flat splitting rent so I was paying like 60 euros a month, you’d sell a board or a pair of shoes every now and then, sometimes get a part-time job for a bit… Life was way different then. This was like 15 years ago when you could have a whole apartment for 300 euros a month.
Arnau Truque, backside smithgrind, 2020.
What was it like in terms of getting kicked out of spots back then? Do you reckon attitudes towards skating have changed?
I don’t know… I think in general it’s kind of the same apart from the fact that now as you’re arriving often another crew is just leaving as opposed to back in the day when we’d skate a spot we were probably the only crew to skate it that week you know? That obviously changes things a little bit, but honestly there’s just so many spots that I don’t think that’s a problem… Like a lot of people only stay in the city centre, which is a shame. The best is just to get a train to a small town on the outskirts of the city and skate all the way back into the centre hitting all the spots. Sometimes we’re like 10km out and we make our way back, I love that. I mean you know you’ve been on some of those missions!
Yeah those Sundays were so fun…
Okay so you’re just skating as much as you can, working random jobs, living off virtually no money… What made you decide to open a skate shop?
At the time I was working in construction on scaffoldings… So that meant every morning waking up at 7am, moving big bits of metal 40 metres above the ground and shit for almost no money. To give you an idea, the company I worked for was also doing the Sagrada Familia, so when there was no work we’d just get sent to stick metal around that bullshit… It got to the point where I thought ‘what am I doing? I’m like basically risking my life for nothing here.’ So me and a few others first imagined starting a distribution, then ‘what about this, what about that’ and in the end we decided to do a skate shop.
Pierre Leze, switch frontside noseslide, 2020.
You had a partner at the time right?
Yeah. He (Julio asked us to leave the partner’s name out of this) had the connection with FTC so we spoke to Kent Uyehara and he was interested… Then I started saving and doing the business plan for like two years. The idea was that I’d stay here and do that, I’d get my share of the money we’d invest through a loan and in the meantime my business partner would go back to America to work, save money and come back to Barcelona when we had everything ready for him to work at the shop; that way instead of the shop paying him, he’d live off his savings until the shop made enough money to do so… Anyway in the meantime Kent came to Barcelona, he liked the idea, we paid for the franchise and the whole thing, but in 2009 when we were supposed to open at Christmas, City Hall fucked everything up for us at the last minute. They claimed something about our walls of the shop didn’t fit their regulations and stopped me from opening. I had all the Christmas product, but was forced to wait until April to open… So already a bit of a crazy start… And then by the time we finally opened and my partner had come back to Barcelona, he didn’t have the money he said he was saving… So the shop really wasn’t doing well and I was basically putting in all the money.
So you had to part ways?
Yeah… Like he’s the one that put me in contact with FTC and he was a friend so it was really difficult but I had to tell him to go basically. And Kent understood. I was in a position where I didn’t have a choice: I was the one that had the crazy loan and it was like the bank will come after me and my family you know? Him, he was just free to walk away.
Ah man that really sucks…
Yeah… And we had our personal issues that I tried to resolve but that didn’t really work out. At the same time he was going through some really tough times… But we all tried to help and it got to the point where it was like ‘you’re not letting us help you and you’re going to make me lose everything and go broke’. It was the only way for me and the shop to survive: I had to keep hustling and he had to go. Like I’d been paying rent on the shop for six months without even being open, paying my partner’s rent, his salary… It was really tough; we really lost a lot of money at the beginning. And I still remember, as soon as I found out he had a job lined up out there I was like ‘okay it’s your last summer here, just try to enjoy it…’ and I bought him a ticket back.
I’m still really sorry that it had to be that way because we were good friends.
I hope he’s okay… That’s all I can say.
Okay and what did the next phase look like? Things get any easier? What changed?
What changed is that I worked by myself doing like 60-hour weeks for six months, which enabled me to save a lot of money… I also helped set up a distribution company that brought in a few brands that were killing it back then, like HUF and Diamond. So sort of just looking at brands that other shops didn’t have in and that I was into, and FTC kind of became the go to place for these brands… Remember that this was ten years ago, so most of the other shops weren’t really run by people that actually skated…
Arnau Truque, kickflip backside lipslide , 2020
So they’d be stocking brands that weren’t necessarily that relevant at the time?
Yeah. Or more just that since I always skated I ended up pushing the brands that were linked to people I liked and knew, so it made the shop a bit different. And yeah then the fact that it’s FTC… Like if you go on a trip to SF as a skater the first thing you do when you arrive is check out FTC. Now it’s the same thing in Barcelona, the first thing people do when they get here is come say hi, get some grip or whatever. It’s funny how I find out about people coming to Barca… They get boxes sent to the shop before they even mention anything ha ha. I always know when JB is coming because a Nike box that says JB Gillet shows up ha ha. ‘Oh shit I guess I’m going to get to see JB soon ha ha, sick.’ Plus everyone that works and has ever worked at the shop skates, so it naturally became the meeting point for a lot of people visiting and I think that also helped a lot.
When you first opened the shop your strategy was a little different to how you’re doing things these days right? What made you decide to no longer sell skate shoes?
Yeah when we first opened we had all the shoe brands: adidas, Lakai, Vans, Nike… Supra dude… We even had Supra ha ha. And we were the first people in Spain to have Converse as we were getting them through FTC in SF… People would trip like, ‘what the fuck… Converse?!’ ‘Cause they didn’t realise there was a skate line. There was no distribution for them here back then, don’t even know if they had them in Europe yet…
But the shoes just weren’t selling so I slowly had to start cutting brands. Like I wish I could have all the brands but I have to pay for this stuff.
And then there was the interview you guys did with Dave Mackey about his new shop and focusing on Lost Art clothing, hardware and not selling any shoes… Like the idea was already at the back of my head but when I read that I just thought fuck it. We just had so many Nikes and so many Cons that just weren’t really selling… Well actually that’s not true, like Nike for example sold super good in the first year but after that they completely changed the way they were doing things here in Spain and suddenly everyone had them you know? Like you could probably buy Nike SB in a fucking bakery ha ha. And that fucked it up for us really bad so we just had to stop selling the shoes. I should probably say now that this is not me just saying ‘fuck Nike SB’ or anything like that because they really help us out a lot these days, I’m just explaining how it was back then.
Anyway even after that I still stuck with Cons for a bit as Pali Negrín is my homie and they were really supporting what we do, like giving shoes to everyone and stuff but they just weren’t selling. And I’d look at everything and be like I’ve got mad shoes in the warehouse but barely any boards on the wall… Like that’s not a skate shop. Basically every year we’d cut a shoe brand and then by 2016 I stopped selling shoes altogether. But yeah it was mainly because of Mackey’s interview so I want to thank him. That dude is so sick and I really like what he’s doing with Lost Art. We had the same issues as him and that interview made me see things clearly: we’re a fucking skate shop; skate any shoes you want I don’t care but you’re always going to need a board. And I dunno like nothing gets me more hyped to skate than a new board with a sick graphic… Shoes I dunno, they’re just whatever ha ha.
Mikel Vidal, frontside nosegrind 180, 2020.
Ha ha. I bet our advertisers are going to love this interview…
Ha ha don’t get me wrong I love shoes, they’re great! I even skate in them ha ha ha. And it’s cool that some shops can pay their bills by selling shoes but for us it just didn’t work. Shoes are so dictated by fashion, skateboards are different, and you see a board you liked five years ago you’re still going to think it’s sick today. In a way skateboards are forever, even though they only last a month, just because of the memories you attach to them.
What’s interesting is that despite all this you’re in a unique position where shoe brands like Nike SB or Cons actually support what you guys do despite you not selling the product ha ha. I’ve never seen anything quite like it. Like they give most of the crew shoes, help out with trips…
I think it’s because of what we do in the city… Like the Spotter guys, the Sants guys, the MACBA guys…  Some may have their differences here and there but we support all these crews and they all fuck with FTC. We respect what other shops are doing but also we’re doing things our way and brands like Nike or Converse want to be associated with our image I guess? And they’re so big that they can afford to… And it’s like if they want to do stuff for the community of course they’re going to do stuff through us as we’re always doing stuff for the community. It’s a marketing thing… And I don’t care, I’m just happy that the kids have shoes to skate in.
I was so stoked to hear that Nike is helping out with this 10-year anniversary video too… That’s going to be so sick.
Yeah! Like they even gave us Enrique Mayor to help Yoryo film the video! Pedro (Attenborough), Brayan (Albarenga), Arnau (Truque), Sixsas (Jose Vivero Diaz) and all the younger kids are getting shit for it… It should be good!
It’s crazy how many other skate shops there are around you… Like how does that work?
Yeah there’s like five other shops in probably like a 500m radius around MACBA. I mean we’re all quite different to be honest… Like Tactic is more of a surf shop that does skate stuff, there’s another that has live music in there sometimes, then Amigos and Rufus do their own thing… And especially now with me not selling shoes, I really don’t care what they do, in a good way. Don’t get me wrong it’s hard having so many shops in the same place but we carry different brands, do different shit… I dunno. And Rufus does a lot for MACBA… We fuck with those guys. Sometimes they take their ledge out, we take the picnic table out, people skate both, it’s cool you know? We’ve had our differences in the past but there’s no reason to stay caught up in that shit… We both care about this community.
Max Geronzi, kickflip, 2019.
Yeah. And that means that when it comes to stuff like protecting MACBA you guys can come together to get the word out…
Yeah I mean I don’t really like telling people what to do, but at the same time you sort of have to make people understand that nobody wants twenty people trying flatground tricks outside your door as you’re trying to sleep you know? When people from other countries come into the shop I always warn them not to skate after 10pm or they’ll get their board taken by the cops. Plus the neighbours are over it and they have a right to be. Obviously at the end of the day people do what they want but we try… And Rufus has definitely been trying a lot. Like we went to a City Hall meeting with the neighbours…
Wow I bet that was interesting.
Yeah I mean it was the first time they were in a room with skaters and they went crazy, like talking over us, screaming and shit… But then the person from the council was like ‘okay everyone calm down; let’s actually look at the numbers relating to the Raval area. This is the number of tickets we gave away for street drinking past the authorised time last month’ and it was like 3000 or something, ‘this is how many tickets we gave out for people pissing in streets’ that was like 5000 or something, ‘this is how many we’ve given out to bars for closing later than they were allowed’ again that was loads… And finally, ‘the number of tickets we gave out for skateboarding is three’. And then the neighbours were like ‘hmmm okay… So maybe the issue here isn’t just skateboarding.’ The thing with MACBA is that it’s the meeting point for skateboarding but also that it’s the fucking meeting point for partying, which I love, ha ha, but obviously the neighbours are over it. And the problem is that so many people that don’t skate treat it like a show and come there to drink because they just want to watch the skaters you know? It’s like having drinks in front of the TV or something.
Anyway when all this happened that’s when Rufus, @macbalife and us came together and figured ‘it’s time to stop the bullshit, we need to stick together because we’re going to lose MACBA’. Because they initially wanted to ban skating from that whole area, even the streets around it and be super strict… But luckily they understood that if they just banned skateboarding in the Raval, the problems they’d be having would be on a whole new level. There’s so much drug use, so many junkies, so many thieves… Skateboarding is not the worst thing that can happen to that neighbourhood.
Erik J Pettersson, 360 flip to fakie, 2012.
And as a whole Ada Colau (Barcelona’s current mayor) has been relatively supportive of skateboarding right?
Yeah… All the previous mayors never wanted to build skateparks or for skateboarding to be a thing here really. At least this mayor and her people realise that there’s no way they’ll ever manage to completely stop skateboarding in Barcelona so they might as well try to kind of control it and make it a legit good thing for the city instead of it just being a mess. I personally don’t like regulations, but right now we need them because there’s just so many of us. It’s not like any other city. In Madrid for example it’s so sick: you go to a spot, they all know each other, you skate to another spot, everyone knows everyone. It’s small and easy, everyone’s connected. Here, it’s a mess ha ha. And don’t get me wrong I do love this mess but it got to the point where City Hall was like, ‘look we need to do something’ and instead of being arseholes and just banning everything they’ve worked with the skaters, built some skateparks, etc… And I think it’s working. We’re really lucky to have Pol Martin: he’s the guy that’s designing all those really nice skateparks that have been popping up like that plaza in Born and he has a really good relationship with the council.
When you look back on everything you’ve achieved with the shop, is there anything that makes you think ‘fuck I’m so glad I gave this a shot ten years ago’?
To tell you the truth the best thing for me is that I’m still surrounded by skateboarding. Because I’m 42 you know? If I hadn’t started the shop I don’t know if I would be… I’m so grateful for that. And then also this feeling of being involved in all these different things that I care about in the city, like the DIY for example or even the kids getting shoes and travelling. I dunno being a part of stuff like that just feels cool.
The more I think about it the more it feels crazy dude… I’m just so thankful that the guys up in San Francisco gave me the opportunity to open one here because I’m pretty sure that with the whole crew, we kind of changed the scene, like changed the city. And it’s weird because sometimes it’s hard but at the same time it’s so easy: the kids we help out, they’ve always been around the shop, just suddenly they’re a bit older and now they’re really good! It feels natural to keep pushing things with the shop because I know it’ll help them and the kids after them and the kids that’ll come after them etc. Like I don’t even know how many generations there are in our crew now! From the older Sants dudes all the way through to the MACBA kids… I dunno I just think that’s so sick. I’m like stupid with this shit… I want this to go on forever. I want to be 80 and still be around all this.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 15, 2021
Jelle Maatman Interview
After recently going pro for Titus Skateboards and a new video part, we thought it was a fine time to check in with Jelle. Jelle’s longtime pal Mathijs Tromp gets the scoop on what one of our favourite Dutch ripper has been up to.
Photography by Gerard Riera (unless stated).
Interview by Mathijs Tromp
After many and many years you finally finished your studies. How is it to be free of that pressure, and do you have more or less time to skate now?
Jelle Maatman: Well yeah… After all it took me almost nine years to finish my studies. First, I was in university for like six months, but I was only 18 years old, and I had to study a lot at home and stuff, which just didn’t work out for me. After that I started a different course, Sport and Health Management, this was a little bit easier. I’ve done that for two years and then I stopped because of personal issues. Two years later I continued, and I finally got my diploma.
50-50 to ollie over
Right after I finished school I directly got a nice job offer. Some guys that I knew started their own business in vintage clothing, called ‘Kilo Kilo’. It is actually a very cool concept; we sell all kinds of vintage and secondhand clothing at cool locations such as skateparks and festivals. We bring cool music, lights and decorate everything real nice. We work with a lot of skaters and there is a relaxed vibe in the company. So, this is what I currently do, and I don’t have any plans to switch or anything. I hope I can grow inside this company together with them.
But… More, or less time to skate… Since I finished my studies, I didn’t get any weeks of rest to be honest. Every time I didn’t had to work, I was on a skate trip, so those are my kind of vacations. And every time I come back home, I have to start working again…
You would say every skate trip is a vacation, but that’s not how it feels to me…
Fastplant
Why do you always get injured before or during skate trips?
Ha ha, it think is just very bad luck… I have to say it’s been going pretty well lately. But since November 2019 until a few months back, I have been injured all the time. I rolled from one injury into another. Some of them were just stupid accidents like stepping onto glass and stuff.
But I think the reason why I get injured during skate trips is that I usually haven’t skated that much for a while. And then, when I finally go on a trip I get too hyped, and I ask too much of myself. Sometimes I have the feeling that I must catch up for what I missed, and that doesn’t always turn out well. I keep trying when I’m too tired, even when I know I must stop. I think those are the moments when it happens. And… I don’t want to say that I’m old, but my body is not recovering as quick as when I was 20, ha ha. Back in the days when I rolled my ankle, I was back on the board within a week, now it takes longer to recover.
Frontside halfcab boardslide transfer
Last summer you turned pro for Titus Skateboards. Did you know this was coming and how does it feel to be pro?
I didn’t see it coming at all! BUT, we were working on the new Titus video ‘
Guess What?!
’ and they pushed me a lot to film for this, because they wanted to give me the last part in this video. At first the video was planned to release in November 2020, but because of my injuries they pushed this time after time. Dennis Ludwig, the Titus TM, kept telling me I really needed a good part for this video. And I kept asking myself: Why was there so much pressure on me for this? Why do I need to have the ender part and not anyone else?
The moment I got my board was very special. We were in Copenhagen with the team during CPH Open, and I was already wasted and was looking for a nice spot to lay down. And out of nowhere Mark Appleyard showed up with a bunch of people, and I didn’t even realise they were filming and stuff… Mark gave me that board and the first seconds I also didn’t realise that he gave me my pro board… At that same moment I figured out why they were pushing me so hard for that part.
And now I don’t think I have the last part, ha ha. Partly during all those injuries I wasn’t able to create something that I wanted.
Tailslide kickflip out. Photo: Dennis Scholz.
What’s your favourite excuse to not film your ender, after claiming a trick?
Ha ha ha! My best excuse is the bad weather in The Netherlands. Or there is a car behind the rail. Or an injury also works very well. But I don’t know, maybe it’s a little bit of a Maatman curse. I talked about this with Rob. The best way to film and ender for me is when you I have the pressure to film an ender. It’s not particularly the pressure or stress, but when I force something like that, it just doesn’t work out for me…
What’s up with the board graphic. Why is there a Formula One car and why do people call you Speedy J?
Ha ha ha fuck… Well, the Formula One car is because I’m fully into Formula One racing. My roommate PD Tom was always watching the races, and that’s how I got into it. At first, I didn’t understand the whole racing thing, and I thought it was boring, but when I started to understand how it all works with the teams and technical things, I got more and more into it.
And regarding Speedy J… I got this question a few times before, but I don’t know if this is the right place to explain this in detail. Because I just really like to skate fast, I guess.
Frontside wallride
So tell us about the first supercars you got from your sponsor money.
The first car I bought was a McLaren 675LT Coupe and the second one a Pagani Zonda HP Borchetta. Ha ha kidding, I’m not into cars at all. I’m also not interested in other race divisions. I drive my girlfriend’s mom’s Fiat 500. But this month I’m going to take over my mom’s car, a Ford Fiesta. I just want a car that brings me from A to B that fits my tall body. I think the Ford Fiesta is perfect for me.
The new Titus video just got released. How was it to film for this and where does the name ‘
Guess What?!
’ come from?
We have been working on this for a long time, partly because of some big trips that got cancelled due to Corona. We planned a trip to Russia in May 2020, and the other trip at the end of the year got cancelled too. I also got a bunch of injuries, so it took a long time. But filming for it was very nice and a lot of fun. We went to Morocco, Spain and Berlin. I also filmed things in my hometown of Arnhem with Tim Koster.
So yeah it was cool, but it took a lot of time and it was hard now and then, especially because they pushed me so much for this, which I didn’t understand at that time.
The name ’Guess What’ is because when Mark Appleyard gave me my board he was like ’Guess What?!’, and this is a sort of inside joke within the team.
How did you get on to the Titus Skateboards team? Did you know them already or how did that go?
I don’t know exactly anymore… Titus wanted to have their team more European orientated. I think they only had German riders at that time. I have to say I was skeptical in the beginning, especially because I was one of those guys that was very pro local skate shop (and I’m still like that). I also didn’t know if I wanted to skate for a big online webshop and stuff.
But at the same time, I already gave up my dream of becoming a pro skater.
But what I still really wanted, was to be a part of a real team, and not just getting boards by some distribution. I wanted to skate for a European board brand and be a part of the team, go on skate trips, film for the video, and if possible, make a little bit of money with it so I can take some more time off from work. And that was exactly what they offered me. It took me some time to decide, especially because I had to give up my sponsorship with Burnside. They were my first sponsor and they always did a lot for me. This was the place where I grew up with skateboarding and met my friends. But I’m very happy I made the decision. I made some super good friends, and the team gets bigger and more international. Now we also have Alex Elfving from Sweden, Guido dos Anjos from Brazil (who’s fucking sick), we have the Spanish legend Dani Lebron, and it only gets bigger and better!
Jelle Maatman, 2021
Who has the best part in the new Titus video?
Guido dos Anjos. Just check the video and find out. Biggest pop, mad switch, mega tech, long slides, long grinds, and the most humble guy you’ll ever met!
You currently live in Arnhem. How is the scene there and how is skating there?
The scene is pretty good, and we have a lot of young kids that start to skate. We also have some younger guys who are up and coming now. Emile de Vos and Finn van Elk are two guys to keep an eye on. We also have a few really good spots… We have ’Provinciehuis’ and the Central Station; these are the two main spots where people are skating every day of the year. The only thing is that we don’t have a skatepark. But some people see Provinciehuis like a skatepark as some guys build obstacles there.
How is it to not talk about your brother during this interview?
Ha ha, delightful! I don’t mind talking about my brother, but I’ve done interviews like this since I was 17, and there have been none without the question: ‘How dies it feel to be Rob’s brother? Have you ever been jealous of your brother?’ It’s just funny.
Feeble grind shuv
Your brother lives at the other side of the country now. Do you still skate with him?
So, you going to ask questions about my brother now, ha-ha? He doesn’t live very near, so I don’t see him that often. But last weekend for example, I got a call from Ewoud Breukink and Jason Lijnzaad who were driving on the highway, and they saw Rob driving to the skatepark… I had a big hangover and I didn’t have any plans to skate, but then it’s also fun to join the session and go there… I really enjoy skating with him, especially now we don’t see each other that often.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  October 4, 2018
Sour in Guatemala
Gustav Tønnesen, frontside heelflip, Puerto San José
SOUR in Guatemala
Skateboarding is filled with chance encounters… Having these useless wooden toys really brings people together from far-flung places and all walks of life. Guatemalan skater Paulo Franco was visiting the skateboarding Mecca (Barcelona) last year with his friend Ches and just by chance he met the Sour team. The next thing you know the whole Sour team are on their way to Guatemala. We spoke to Paulo, Sour head honcho Björn Holmenäs and Sour filmer Jack Thompson to hear exactly how it all panned out.
Photos by Nikwen
Interviews by Will Harmon
What is the skate scene like in Guatemala?
Paulo Franco: The skate scene in Guatemala is in the process of developing… I’m gonna call it a ‘small scene’ that is divided into small groups depending on what part of the city the skaters live and what social environment they are surrounded with. For example, there’s a few zones in the city (Guatemala City) that are called ‘red points’ because they’re drug distribution points or a gang operational zone, so the kids there skate to try and have an escape from their reality, but they don’t have any skate culture to stick with and to use as a role model. They don’t have any access to magazines and they don’t have the chance to feel free to go skate other spots with other skaters from other parts because they feel insecure, and many other reasons. There’s a few more groups that just go to the skate plaza, for example, and 50% of them skate hard every day in that park, and the other 50% are dealing with non-integrated families, drugs, robbery, etc. I’ve been skating here my whole life, so from my point of view skateboarding is free and different for every skater in the country, but we don’t have this reinforced culture of skateboarding here because society always puts personal development last; we still act as a primitive society and that reflects in a poor and very small skate scene.
Barney Page, backside 180 kickflip, Puerto San José
How do you guys get skateboards? Are there skate shops in Guatemala?
PF: We get skateboards from a few skate shops that are operating in the city. There’s three real skate shops working in the city right now, so as a skater you usually have to save money for a month or two, and then you can go to the shop to get your board or your shoes. Personally, I am a big fan of physical skate shops, but we are now facing a problem as a developing skate scene, which is ‘virtual shops’. I mean buying online is cool, but it’s cool when you know that there’s a physical store too. These ‘virtual shops’ are doing some kind of weird move and they don’t pay taxes, so they sell boards half the price of a board sold by a local skate shop. So my point is that these ‘virtual shops’ makes real, core, skate shops suffer and they run the risk of disappearing altogether at some point.
How did you meet the Sour team?
PF: Ha ha, it’s funny… So Ches (Hernandez) and I had been watching the Sk8mafia videos for more than ten years;
I think since the Sk8mafia Saturdays… So a few years later we started seeing that there were some guys skating with them that looked amazing in the way they skated. It was very attractive because it was totally different, so we started identifying some of the Sour guys in those videos, and they were absolutely incredible… So then we went to Barcelona a few times and we knew that some of them were living there but WE NEVER SAW THEM! Ha ha, until last year…
We went on a trip from July to August and in the last 12 days I was battling for a trick in El mercat de les flors… So we decided to head there but we didn’t go the way we usually do. By chance, we happened to see a skater going out from a half closed metal door, and it was Gustav! We didn’t say anything to him, we skated the spot. At the end of the session we start talking… Ches and I were like ‘hey man we should go and see if the Sour shop is open right now’. We thought it was a Sour skate shop when we first saw it, so we started walking down the block, and yeah, it was open, but we didn’t see anyone. So we decided to leave, but suddenly Björn appeared and said ‘
quieren madera?
’ So we thought let’s buy a deck for the memories, and he nicely told us to come inside. He told us that on that Saturday they were gonna have a sale and that we were welcome to come and buy some Sour product then. Man we got so excited, because we were about to get Sour product and bring that product home were no one knows anything about European brands, especially Sour.
Josef Scott Jatta, backside Smith grind revert, Guatemala City
You’d be the envy of all your friends…
PF: Yeah, so that Saturday came and we went and we met Sami, I think Jack was there inside and also Josef. It was a gnarly sale, they gave us beer and treated us very nice and we talked a little about Guatemala. Björn told us that he had been to Mexico some time ago and that he was a little curious about Guatemala, and he showed me a used board with a Guatemalan sticker on it… It was a board that a friend of mine, for some reason, left behind in Barcelona when he went to the Red Bull skate arcade contest. So that day Björn asked Sami about going on a tour in 2018 to Guatemala and he was like ‘fuck yeah!’ Then Björn asked Josef and he agreed too! So we bought some clothes and some gym bags from Sour and we got a Gustav board. We left it in the office because Björn asked Gustav to sign it. So we came back two days before we were heading back to Guatemala, picked up the board, and Sami showed us the computer with the Sour Guatemala tour on the schedule! Ha ha, man I was fucking excited, but I don’t know for a moment I thought ‘hmm maybe they’re gonna find a better destination later’ or ‘maybe they’re not gonna go’ but at the same time I’m thinking about how mind-blowing it will be for people in Guatemala to have them there skating!
Have pros or a pro skate team ever been to Guatemala to skate before?
PF: Yeah, we have been visited by a few pros, Jerry Hsu and Chris Dobstaff, when Jerry was riding for Maple a long time ago. Later Raymond Molinar and Milton Martinez came. Then Nate Jones, Dennis Busenitz, Max Schaaf, Adelmo Jr, Guru Khalsa have visited over the years… But an entire pro skate team, never man! It’s the first time we’ve had a whole pro skate team here, and an absolutely incredible team as well!
Koffe Hallgren, kickflip, Guatemala City
So what was it like having the Sour team skate in your home country?
PF: In the beginning I was kind of worried because I really wanted them to have a great time here, and I don’t know, many of them haven’t been in this part of Central America because it is an unexplored country for skateboarding. So I just really hoped that they’d get everything they wanted here. I remember I started spreading the word to the local skaters… ‘Hey guys the Sour team is coming!’ Most of them knew Albert, Barney, and Gustav from videos, but then when Sour came my friends were shitting their pants, ha ha! When we started going to the spots it was really dope man, because every one of them can see a skate-able thing out of nowhere. Their creativity is at 500%, so it was very inspiring to see them in real life and to share moments at skate spots with them; an all around amazing experience! The Sour guys really reflect the type of person they are in their skating. They’re an amazing group, on and off the skateboard!
Thanks Paulo. OK now Björn I’m going to ask you about you and the team’s experience there. What did you know about Guatemala before you guys visited?
Björn Holmenäs: I actually didn’t know anything before Ches and Paulo stepped into the office. I mean I knew where it was located and that they had good coffee and some pyramids, but that’s about it. I didn’t know anything about any skate spots there or the political situation, I just knew it was a poor country. I think it’s ranked 31 out of 33 Latin American countries in terms of poverty. I had been to the south of Mexico, which borders Guatemala, and I really liked it, so I figured it would pretty much be the same as the there. I really wanted to take the guys on a trip somewhere where we could see something completely different.
Albert Nyberg, frontside 180 kickflip, Puerto de Iztapa
So before you left Barcelona, did you ask Paulo and Ches what there was to skate over there? Do any skate spot research beforehand or anything?
BH: When they got back I asked them to send us some photos of spots over there that they thought were interesting. To be honest there were spots there, but it wasn’t like ‘wow, wow!’ spots around every corner like Barcelona. It was also way rougher terrain. I’m always sure that when we go on a trip and shoot photos for an article there’s gonna be something, and we were right! There was definitely something, but they weren’t the easiest spots to skate.
So what were your first impressions of Guatemala when you guys first arrived?
BH: First of all our first flight was cancelled so we got there 24 hours later, so Oscar (Candon), Nikwen, Koffe and Spängs came before us. They said that the house was amazing, but everything else around was really weird. So when we got there we got a van and rode down to where the house was and the road was super sketchy. Also the van was supposed to be a 15-seater, but there were 12 of us in there at that point with all of our stuff and we were all sitting on top of each other. The suspension was all down on the ground and all the trucks in Guatemala don’t have any rear lights so we didn’t see anything. All of a sudden a massive truck would just be there right in front of us! There were motorbikes without any lights with three people riding on them. And the locals had told us to be careful, as there were a lot of highway robberies… So it wasn’t really like we felt super safe. Also there was no Internet. It didn’t work for anyone on their phones so we had no GPS. All we had was screen grabs of maps so we were constantly getting lost. We’d end up in dark alleys with police with big guns… That first night I thought: ‘what have we done? That’s it we’re lost; we’re gonna get robbed and perhaps even by the cops!’ But eventually, when we were about to give up, we ended up by this gate. We expected it to be a gated community, but it was actually just one out of four nice houses in a really poor neighbourhood. And so that’s where we were staying.
Nisse Ingemarsson, noseslide pop over, Puerto San José
And this is Guatemala City?
BH: No this is Puerto San Jose. So we parked the van in there and we asked the guy taking care of the house to get us some beers and then we pretty much just locked ourselves into the house. But then you wake up the next day, it’s light outside and everything looks different. But it definitely took us two days until we realised it was actually really nice and safe there.
Oh OK.
BH: We didn’t see anyone that wasn’t from Guatemala in that city for those two weeks. We were the only foreigners in the village.
Oh man, Gringo alert!
BH: Yeah! All blonde guys mostly from Sweden so yeah, we stood out. But over the days, in a very short time we realised everyone was happy to have us there and no one meant anything bad. They were the most humble and nice people, the Guatemalans. I didn’t have one bad encounter the whole two weeks we were there.
So it just looked sketchy at places but everything was OK?
BH: Well the locals were saying it can be sketchy there, but it can be sketchy in London, in Barcelona and in Stockholm as well. If you’re unlucky then you’re unlucky. More than anything it didn’t feel safe driving as the roads aren’t like autobahns and we didn’t really have any seatbelts.
Barney Page, slappy 180 to fakie 5-0, Antigua
And didn’t you mention that the locals said to not wear new shoes and to look too flashy?
BH: That’s what they said and obviously everyone showed up in their new Nikes and adidas. Someone asked us like ‘how much are those shoes?’ And we were like ‘uh, I don’t know?’ But the new looking shoes… That was taken care of in like five minutes. As soon as you walk out the house your shoes didn’t look new any longer; everything was dirty.
So when you guys finally got used to being there, what was it like trying to go skating?
BH: Looking around where we were staying at first it didn’t look like there was anything. So we thought we’d do the majority of the skating on Guatemala City. But the drive to Guatemala City was hectic. First of all the drive there wasn’t the nicest as there were so many people in the van (16 in all) and it didn’t really feel safe. And Guatemala City was harder to skate than we thought. There was quite a lot of distance between each spot and it felt a little bit like being in the US sitting in all the traffic. So since we didn’t have much luck on our first days in the city we decided to skate locally. So we hooked up with this crew of tuk-tuk drivers. We had like four tuk-tuks, we’d pay them for like three hours (the equivalent of ten Euros) and we’d just tell them to go in a certain direction and take all the small streets until we say ‘stop’ if we see something. By doing that that’s how more than half of the article came about.
Oh sick OK.
BH: And wherever we’d stop, everyone around would stop too, even the police! They would stop the traffic so we could skate… The taco stands would move out of the way and everyone would be applauding. Security guards with shotguns would move motorbikes for us…
As most of you guys speak Spanish did you talk to the locals and ask them what they thought of you guys being there?
BH: They were extremely surprised that we were there. Everyone was super-friendly and curious about what we were doing. Even the local newspaper interviewed us. There are 20,000 people in the city (Puerto San Jose) and pretty much everyone knew each other and they knew there was a big group of foreign skaters around. So when we were out skating and people heard about it, everyone would go there to watch us.
Daniel Spängs, switch backside tailslide, Puerto San José
So you guys were quite a spectacle.
BH: Yeah and I think you see that in some of the photos. For Barney’s backside flip I think there was probably 150 people watching and surrounding the spot.
And did you meet all the local skaters?
BH: Yeah as Paulo mentioned not many foreign skaters come to Guatemala for obvious reasons. If you’re gonna do your skate trip somewhere where you really want to get the best skating it won’t be your first destination. I’m not saying you shouldn’t visit there, but you need to take some time and have the locals with you when you go skate otherwise you’ll be pretty lost. Every country has the embassy website that warns you about certain stuff and Guatemala is a high-risk country where it says you shouldn’t go, but that’s also complete bullshit. So I’d say anyone that wants to should definitely go there… But it’s not an easy destination.
So I know you said nothing sketchy happened to you guys, but I heard there were a few non-skating injuries… Care to share?
BH: We had a barbecue at the house and there’s a swimming pool there, but it wasn’t very deep. So Barney tried to front flip into the swimming pool and landed on his head straight at the bottom of the pool.
Ouch.
BH: Yeah we thought he had broken his neck. It was a heavy hit, but it’s good that he’s got a thick old English neck there. We were worried in the beginning but then it was all good. He was OK, but that was the heaviest one I guess. Then Josef almost cut his entire finger off trying to cut some meat or something at another one of our barbecues. And then Oscar fell into the sewer. He just fell through like a manhole when we were hanging up laundry in the backyard. Simon stepped on a blowfish, a poisonous blowfish on the beach.
Holy crap!
BH: Yeah but he was OK as well. No skate injuries, but I guess that Barney one was really scary when it happened. He was sore for the last two days of the trip. Josef’s cut didn’t look that bad, but he still needed to get seven stiches.
Erik J Pettersson, kickflip to fakie, Puerto de Iztapa
Tell us about the van story.
BH: I’ll let Jack tell that one.
OK…
Jack Thompson: We were at Paulo’s summerhouse having a barbecue, which was 45 minutes away from where we were staying, and Josef had just cut his hand. The driver was coming to pick up Josef and the driver had already said that we had needed to get out of there by 11pm, because it gets kinda sketchy there after that. So we were kinda panicking and rushing to get ready, as we needed to follow the driver back to the city because we didn’t know the way. Sami had parked the van last, on the hill by Paulo’s summerhouse. So we all got in the van hoping to go (I hadn’t driven yet this trip) and I went to put my foot on the clutch and what I thought was the brake and then suddenly we just started rolling backwards. Sami hadn’t put the handbrake (emergency brake) on. So it was me, Oscar, Gustav and Barney in the van and it was on a pretty steep, narrow hill. So I’m frantically trying to push in the clutch and brakes trying to start the van and we’re just flying backwards. Oscar’s trying to find the handbrake but it was in a weird place like under the dashboard or something – I didn’t know where it was. We couldn’t find it and Gustav was trying to open the door to jump out. Barney was just sat there accepting what was happening… He had just accepted that we were gonna die. Sami had run over and was hanging onto the steering wheel from outside the van window. He was trying to steer us backwards down the hill. I was just standing on the brake, or what I thought was the brake, trying to make the thing stop. And all that was going through my head was that the brakes were out. Then I thought maybe there was a beer can under the brake, so I started to kick the brake or what I thought was the brake, then I felt the real brake, which was actually to the right of what I was stamping on and there was some big chunk of plastic between the accelerator and the brake. So as I tried to kick the thing I thought was under the brake I managed to find the real brake and I stamped on it and we were like half a metre from going backwards off a cliff.
Wow…
JT: Yeah Oscar never found the handbrake, because it was a hidden lever that you pull under the dashboard somewhere. That was why Sami never put it on in the first place because it was a real awkward handbrake. He thought he’d just leave it in gear, but he never thought we wouldn’t be able to find the brake. So after we almost fell off a cliff we all got out and just sat there shaking. The driver had left us by now and we had to find our own way back to the city.
What an ordeal! So Björn what other impressions did you have about Guatemala?
Björn Holmenäs: It’s such a beautiful country and it has the most insane volcanoes. We’d see lava pouring out of volcanoes and we’d see smoke and shit and then old beautiful colonial towns. There were lakes up in the mountains and such extreme nature it was like
Game of Thrones
and
Jurassic Park
at the same time. It was just so nice and so different from everything else that you normally see. But at the same time it’s a relatively poor country where people throw plastic bottles and shit everywhere and that’s pretty sad to see. And it’s not entirely their fault… I guess the education about it and recycling is almost nonexistent. That was probably one of the only negative things about the place. And you’d see all those old American cars that that been just shipped down to Guatemala and they’d just spew out bad fumes and pollution. There were plenty of toxic old cars and old school buses going everywhere. Most of us, we think about our own, we think about our own country and ‘let’s get electric cars and just ship our old cars to other poorer countries’. I mean it affects the entire planet. I mean I feel like no one talks about it (pollution) in Guatemala. They are just concentrating on surviving you know? But it was a bit shocking to see people just throwing their garbage out the window right by the jungle. Hopefully those things will get better over time.
Martin Sandberg, frontside rock ‘n’ roll, Guatemala City
Hope so. So all the guys on the team had a great time?
BH: Everyone could come – no one was injured so we were pretty lucky to get the entire team out there. We all stayed in this amazing house with the most amazing host family there that helped us with whatever we needed. Everything just turned into the best trip. No bad things really, well maybe some of the food and the water made some of us… Well they said 70% of European people that go to Central America get the shits and that was pretty much spot on.
Seventy per cent of the team!
BH: Ha ha yeah. Everyone had their day that they weren’t 100%.
Any last words or thoughts?
BH: Looking back on it all I just want to say we’re super-grateful to Paulo and all those guys. I wanna give the biggest thanks to all the locals and everyone in Guatemala; everyone was so nice. And the family where we stayed, they were so nice and helpful. All in all they were some of the most humble and genuine people I have ever met. That’s the main thing I want to say I guess.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 19, 2015
Cons One Star World Tour: London and Manchester
The Cons One Star World Tour has kicked off in the UK. Our man Sam Ashley is there to document the Cons boys along their way. Video recap by Ben Chadourne.
First stop: Making new friends after the signing at London’s
Slam City Skates
.
Doctor Z (Zered Bassett) prescribed a frontside flip for this swollen nipple at Mile End.
Sean Pablo impossible tail grabs over Mile End’s new bump to bar.
Tom Remillard nosebone over the hip.
Sean Pablo, ollie from the ledge into the bank.
Satisfied Customer
After six hours (!) on the bus the team found themselves in Manchester. Tom Remillard celebrates by rolling into prozzy banks.
Zered, backside flip at BBC Manchester’s old studios.
Mike Anderson, 270 to switch pivot for the homies.
And yet more signing for the good lads at
Note
.
Ben Raemers, killin Manchester’s pumpcage demo: backside fence ride, 270 out.
Tom Remillard backside floater in some mystic summer evening rays.
Next stop: Madrid!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 23, 2024
David Stenström – Dignity is Hard
Ph. James Griffiths
Words by Axel Lindquist
A pair of greenish, paint stained Superstars, a big orange t-shirt, shorts and continuous laughter… That’s how I remember David when we ran through the rain from the Björns trädgård skatepark to take cover in the local skate store next to it. This was before he started skating, I somehow thought back then. He was short and thin, generally small, so while anyone younger stepping into the skate store was a potential victim of comments by the older guys, David was an especially easy prey. Probably someone mentioned that shorts were a bad choice for this kind of weather, or maybe someone asked him where his board was. And you expect to see the young ones crumble at these type of comments. How else are the olds to assert dominance? But David’s continuous laughter continued. I don’t remember exactly what he responded, but it was the first time I got to experience David’s lifelong legacy of self-preservation.
One-foot, Paris. Ph. Alex Pires
Dignity is hard. A lot of us make the mistake of thinking that there is a right way to acquire it, so we observe the great amounts of people we are surrounded by, searching for that right way, and get overwhelmed. Soon you find yourself hesitant. Confused and reduced. We make the mistake of thinking that there is a right way to acquire dignity, when fundamentally acquiring it is the right way. That is, dignity is from the inside out. Because, when there is no one else to receive respect from, then you better find it in yourself. You better know how to carry yourself. And growing up alongside David he has proven this again and again. Honest to himself. Reaching his ideals.
This has led to David always being surrounded with the coolest shit. From the Awaut* crew, to Bellows skateboards, to Polar, Cons, Carhartt, Stüssy, Last Resort. I remember a time, while he was still very young, when people said that he should not switch sponsors so often, because he might lose all of them. But that’s being simple. A lot of calculative people are too dumb to be honest to themself. And it shows. When it comes to an art like skateboarding it is probably better to feel than to think. And if anything, David being your favourite skater’s favourite skater, when he switches sponsors it says more about the brands than it says about him.
*
If you like digging into local skate scenes then do yourself a favour and watch
Awaut’s clips on YouTube
. They paved the way for whatever Stockholm street skateboarding is today.
Bluntslide, Paris. Ph. James Griffiths
Another perk of acting on instinct is that when the calculative hesitate, they miss the chance of being corrected. Instead of reducing oneself to arbitrary expectations, David has learned by doing. What we today call: fuck around and find out. Whether it be career moves or style choices. I remember another day by the bowls in Björns trädgård; this time it was sunny and David showed up, suddenly done with his Tony Trujillo-era. Wearing a bicycle hat, a big tank top, and impressively sagging shorts, he had overnight transformed into a miniature Brent Atchley. Someone told him he looked like a farmer, and so his Brent Atchley-era lasted for that day only. Another time I remember overhearing him being lectured by a mom, telling him that people can get offended by him having “Bitch” written on his griptape. Did his continuous laughter end there? Probably not. Did he change the griptape? No. But while us other kids hesitated, he got to actually balance the trade-off of having the coolest griptape in the park and what some mom thought about it. In that sense he is living proof that if you stay strong, the world does not crumble by your mistakes.
But dignity is hard for everyone. Sometimes self-preservation can come at the cost of humbleness and consideration for others, and for someone as self-made as David is, life has taken a great chunk of self-preservation.
Frontside 50-50 gap out, Austin. Ph. Kris Burkhardt
I was going to write that David has been misunderstood, but fuck it, growing up he also went through a phase of straight-up arrogance. During its peak, when his crew entered the park, others were forced to practise self-preservation. Snake sessions were standard.
It does feel a bit crazy to consider that I thought David didn’t skate that day when we ran through the rain. David was born into skateboarding, and had the old guys in the skate store that day known who David was son to, then they wouldn’t have been so quick with their comments.
Ollie to fakie, Paris. Ph. Alex Pires
Talking to the originals from the Swedish skate scene in the late ‘70s they tell similar stories of a stylish local, as funny as brash, showing how it’s supposed to look. Growing up together, Tony Magnusson recalls how David’s father, Torbjörn “Tobba” Stenström, was the one aware of style and expression. During a time when skateboarding went through a prepubertal identity crisis, with the best skaters in Stockholm expected to do shows three times a day during the weekends, with matching outfits and smoke machines, Tony remembers how Tobba still managed to have both a sense of style and control over it. While the others only focused on competing with each other, Tobba had the ability to focus on how it was supposed to look. That explains why Tobba got the biggest picture published when
Skateboarder
magazine visited Stockholm in ‘79. When comparing the photos it’s obvious. Style, as hard as it is to quantify, is universal. The ability to sense style is in everyone. You know it when you see it. As clear as math. And Tobba, just as David, are the ones to demonstrate it. Another hero from back then, Hans “Götis” Göthberg, recalls the first time he came to visit Stockholm and the indoor park at the time, New Sport House. Götis was met by Tobba and Tony telling him to show them that trick they’ve heard he could do. Götis, intimidated by the big city attitude, was still flattered by being acknowledged by the best at the time. And a lot of people can probably relate today. Similarly, a ‘Yeah’ from David will be honest, and mean more than a crowd of half-assed skaters cheering.
Frontside nosegrind, Paris. Ph. James Griffiths
In that sense, David is a role model hard to assess. Though a lot of the young local skaters here in Stockholm are missing out on his style for the time being, he has set a pretty high bar for us in terms of what you can expect from a skateboarder. Not only is he naturally talented, an artist, and putting in the work, but all three at the same time. From his residence in Paris for the time being, David is still guiding the local scene to what you can achieve if you stay true to yourself. David was born into skateboarding; he encapsulates all of Stockholm’s skate history and administers it well. Scrolling his Insta people are asking Pontus to make David pro. As if he already wasn’t, I think it’s time to acknowledge the fact again. And again.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Polar Skate Co. (@polarskateco)

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 21, 2023
Tom Knox: the friends and family interview
Gap to frontside boardslide to fakie.
My earliest memory of Tom Knox is from one of the first times we went skating together. It was cold out, December I think, and I was going to link with Jake Harris to try and film. When I arrived to meet Jake at Pimlico station, Tom was there too with his brother Sparrow. As I recall it was one of the first times Sparrow got to go out skating in the city with just his older brother. We skated down to the stair spot and Tom immediately starts to switch ollie down these certain stairs of the spot I’d never seen anyone skate before due to the short run-up. It wasn’t the standard 3-up-6-down that everyone usually skates, Tom had found a new set of stairs making it a 6-down-3-down. As Jake filmed, Tom knocked out the switch ollie down the 6-stair and a quick fakie tre down the 3-stair within about 5-6 goes. The
footage
eventually ended up in Blueprint’s
Make Friends
video, the board company that was flowing him at the time. I was amazed at his quick feet at such a young age and struck by his creative approach to a common spot. As we headed to another spot I commented on Tom’s jacket and how torn up it was on the right side. ‘A slam?’ I asked… ‘It’s just from carrying my board.’ he said. I schooled him on the carrying your board griptape out technique and he thanked me. He was young after all, a teenager, but I could tell he had a bright future ahead of him.
Years later I had the pleasure of
interviewing Tom
after his breakthrough
Eleventh Hour
part he’d made with Jacob Harris. At that time in his life he was just moving out of his parent’s home and into a skate house with his mates. Then, a few years on, I got to
interview Tom again
, post
Vase
video part (which really made him a household name) and after he had just become a new dad; his daughter Rosie was just a few weeks old. So it was thrilling to catch up with Tom again this week, years later, after a slew of pro NB# colourways, a successful Atlantic Drift video series, three more kids and several more unforgettable video parts with Jake Harris under his belt. I feel like I’ve seen Tom grow up right in front of my eyes, and with everything he’s accomplished I can really say I’m proud of him. Don’t you just love it when good things happen to good people? For this interview we’ve tried something a little different: all the questions are from his friends, family and teammates. Have a butchers…
Photography in London by Sam Ashley (unless stated)
Interview by Will Harmon
Fakie kickflip.
The first question is from Tiago Lemos, he asks: ‘What’s your favourite place to skate, and why?’
I mean, through my whole life I’ve skated in London, so I would have to say London in general is my favourite place. Because I’ve spent so much of my time here, I can kind of do what I want to do within skateboarding in London, because it gives me the time to figure out the spot, the trick… I can go skate Mile End (skatepark) and then I can go find a spot, figure it out, train up a trick at Mile if it’s something that I want to do and then go do it. So I’d have to say London is my favourite place to skate, but there’s a lot of difficulties with skating here, which are a nightmare. And apart from that, I mean, honestly the best city I’ve gone to skate is Athens, because everything grinds… Like spots in London take a lot more work whereas I find some of these other older European cities are designed by architects who have chosen better materials for skating. I actually love skating in Athens. It also helps that the food and red wine is lovely and cheap so it makes it a really nice trip. That has to be my favourite foreign city in recent years, but ultimately I would have to say London; I actually love it here.
OK your brother Sparrow asks: ‘You used to skate transition regs and street goofy way back in the day. Do you think this had any impact on the skater we see today?’
I would say it has. It’s a weird one because when I first started skating, like when I dropped in a ramp first I did it regular-footed, but then I would only be able to ollie and push goofy. So I never had to switch to different kinds of pushing. I know a few other people that happened to but after like a year of skating, I remember some people kind of almost calling me out at the skatepark, like, ‘that’s fucking weird!’ When I was learning how to do ollie fakies on ramp, I dropped in a halfpipe regular, I’d do a nose stall or whatever you call it, then I’d come back in goofy and then I do an ollie, because I couldn’t do it regular. So I couldn’t ollie regular, but I was learning how to kickflip goofy, so I tried to learn everything on ramps goofy. It took me years to learn how to skate switch, as in do a switch heelflip or do a proper switch ollie. But I would say what it has done is that I feel like I can roll down and can take hill bombs and big banks switch still with confidence, although it’s been years since I dropped in a big ramp switch. Now, when I skate switch, I’m looking backwards and it’s not intentional. It just happened that way, you know?
Yeah… OK this next one is from Dave Mackey: ​​’Having already filmed so many incredible clips and parts, what keeps you pushing? Where does that motivation come from? I know you’re someone who really cares about the end product and how it looks. Do you still find time to search for spots yourself? What’s the thought process when setting out? ‘I could do this here’ or ‘I never filmed that’? Finding time for skateboarding as a parent with four young kids can be hard enough but the time needed to work out a trick for a spot can be just as time consuming.’
I guess what kept me going is that the people I did it with as a kid, and people I filmed with as a kid, like Jake (Harris), are still doing it. That definitely helps me out a lot because I still have that kind of feeling when I go out skating with them. I can still have that feeling inside of excitement; it still kind of does feel the same. I think that’s what kept me going. And in terms of say looking for spots, I never really looked for spots, I just found them on my way. You know, London’s a diverse city, it’s got so many backstreets. I’m not very good at directions myself, so I’m always getting lost. I wind up actually stumbling across something, or I’ll pass something 1000 times as a kid and then now I’d be looking at it like, ‘oh shit, maybe you could do this here,’ and then I’ll go to it. It’s just the brain constantly seeing things in different ways as you get older. Recently, even for this stuff I’ve been shooting for you guys, I’ve been going back to spots I skated when I was a kid, you know? It feels quite nice going back to those spots and actually realising the stuff I did as a kid was pretty hard. I’m like, ‘maybe I could go do something a bit different, a bit better.’ But when I get there I’m like, ‘shit. I was pretty good when I was 17!’ I’m struggling to one up myself, which is a nice feeling though.
Ollie in.
Yeah, I remember when you back 50ed that big rail against the wall, right by the St. Paul’s 3-stair, you remember that one? That was amazing man. You must have been a teenager then.
Yeah, I mean, that was where we’d skate every weekend. That’s where I met everyone, Jake and Dan (Clarke) and all that crew would meet at that 3-stair every weekend and we did that for years and one time I looked at that rail. And I’d never grinded a rail before; I was so scared to grind a rail, but I was kinda like, ‘if there’s a wall beside it, it feels kind of safer.’ So that’s the one I decided to grind first. But it’s like what I said, it’s years and years of it just being there and then finally your eyes open to something like, ‘I think it’s possible to try and do that.’ And that’s still the case to this day in London… There’re so many spots I used to skate, and if I went there now, I’d have a different perspective on it and be able to come up with something there and have fun at that spot again in a different way. What did Mackey ask about the kids?
Finding time to skate as a parent with four young kids can be hard enough but the time needed to work out a trick for a spot can be just as time consuming…
I mean a lot of that comes down to my wife being super down to have the kids when I go skate.
And it comes down to my friends, especially Jake, finding stuff for me, hitting me up… He gets inspired himself once we work on a project and he really helps me out. And he’s not really going out spot searching, he’s on a bus too or like he tries to meet up with his missus for a pint or something and he finds something on the way and he’ll text it to me and then we’ll figure it out and go there. So it definitely helps with other people…
Yeah for sure. OK this one is from Chris Jones: ‘Do you have any funny stories from your times at Isle? Nick Jensen stories?’
I mean, there’s so many different Jensen stories. I was speaking to Jake about this recently because I’ve been spending time with Nick lately. And like, Nick is such an amazing individual character, it’s hard to explain in words. Working on anything with him was incredible, because he’s such an artistic brain. Sometimes in the end production it would definitely be him trying to spin a statue with a screwdriver and you’d have a big ball of string trying to hold up a board… It was just a big mess, a lovely big mess. But working with him on that stuff was just hilarious. It was so great, but it was like, pretty sketchy at points, but you know he always pulled it off in the end, with help from Jake they always did their thing. And I think artistically, like what they did visually with that stuff was always amazing.
Drop-down switch 50-50.
Yeah I agree. Kyron Davis asks: ‘Do you have any quotes or sayings you heard from your mum and dad that have stuck with you?’
As a parent, I start saying stuff to my kids and I realise how much of an impact my parents had on me.
I think once you start having kids it kind of gives you a different perspective on your own parents. One thing I definitely say to my kids that my dad always said to me is just everything in moderation. He always said, ‘too much of anything is bad for you.’ And I really feel that’s true. Too much of anything, even if it’s a good thing, too much of it, nah, you need moderation. You need to do different stuff in life. You need to be with different people and be doing different stuff and switch it up. Just too much of anything is bad, that’s definitely something that stuck with me.
OK the next one is from Dan Magee: ‘You grew up in a zone which is heavily referenced in many songs by The Kinks, as Ray & Dave Davies grew up in Fortis Green. It also seems to be an area that’s also under the radar slightly in terms of London skateboarding. Can you share any stories of growing up in the area and spots you associate with this zone? How has living there affected your outlook on skateboarding?’
Yeah, I think some of those brothers grew up in Muswell Hill; I lived there as a kid for a few years. And then the studio they owned was at the top of my road from my main family home where I grew up. It was just weird though, when I was growing up, it was kind of being gentrified then, so my parents would have moved there when the housing market was cheap. So growing up, just like suddenly you’d realise there were a lot of artists and art around and all that stuff, which is strange because now, as an adult, trying to buy a house you realise how fucked up it is now and how easy they had it. Thirty years ago you could just buy a place in a nice area of London for like no money; they were just giving out mortgages. And in terms of skateboarding in that area… It’s a weird thing in London as you know. Everyone in London skateboarding wise is pretty much east and south. So west and north kind of get looked over, which is good, because I’ve skated a lot of spots north that I knew as a kid. It’s definitely under the radar, but where I grew up in north London was an absolute treat for skateboarding. It almost felt like a suburb, almost not part of London, even though I lived next to Finsbury Park train station. It’s like two stops from King’s Cross on the Victoria line. It’s not like I live far out but we have such a kind of close unit of loads of skateboarders and we just have all these local spots near us, we’d wax all these curbs up…  It’s a massive scene that really inspired me. And also, we’ve got some of the best hill bombs in London where I’m from. I grew up on top of one of the hills.
That must have really helped you in skating hills…
What it did for me actually, a big part of skating for me, still, to this day, is going to meet people. That’s a big part of skating, it’s the skate on the way to meet everyone. Sometimes you go skating and you just end up talking shit with your mates and you maybe try and film a trick or whatever, but sometimes the best part of the day in terms of being on your skateboard, is weaving through traffic down a hill, and you get that adrenaline and you just feel alive. And I really… I still love that to this day. I never get a bus; I skate to the station every day. And you know, I got a 10,15, 20-minute skate depending on what station I choose. And in a way I feel like that is the essence: just pushing to the station… Not fucking getting out of the station and skating the skatepark.
360 flip to fakie. Ph. Rafal Wojnowski
Yeah you’re right. And there’s another part to Magee’s question, he says: ‘It’s been done to death, but from where you grew up, you’re probably the true heir to having a Kinks song in your video part rather than many American pros. Which track would you have and why?’
Well, I’ve actually had a part I did with Jake,
a part for SML Wheels
I did years ago, that had a Kinks song. It had ‘This Strange Effect’, which is lovely and one of my favourite Kinks songs.
Well you’ve schooled the skate nerd, ha ha! All right, the next one is from your dear friend Jake (Harris), and he’s asking: ‘What’s your favourite thing we’ve ever filmed together?’
I mean, I’ve filmed so much with that guy… I really love this thing we got to film together years ago. It was in Vauxhall by the boat ledges, and I do a line starting at the boat ledges, then I do a wallride, then I turn a corner and I start skating another spot. And the second spot is something we would skate all the time as kids…
The manual pad…
Yeah exactly, the manual pad and this was the time I was just kind of figuring out manuals. And this was in the time that Jake was going to university, I wasn’t in uni, so I’d just go to my local park in the day, smoke a lot of weed and skate the manny pad. I remember learning switch flip nose manuals. I remember doing one on that manny pad and I was like, ‘fuck, maybe I could do the wallride and then go around and do that…’ But then I was like, ‘oh wait, there’s a ledge before, oh shit there’s another ledge before that one! Maybe I could link the whole thing together.’ Like we’ve linked lines together before like that, but that was one of the first ones where it really felt like we were doing two separate lines in one line. And the best thing about that was, it was freezing cold. I remember it was in December sometime. No one was coming to skate with us so we’d have to find a spot to hide our bags in. So we’d get there, hide our bags and just start trying and we’d go for hours and if we didn’t do it we’d just have to come back. I remember being like, ‘all right, it can just be me and you (Jake) and we can still figure it out. If there’s no one there we can stash the bags somewhere and we’ll deal with it.’ And I remember that being like a really nice feeling just being there, both breaking a sweat in December, freezing cold… It’s pretty hard doing that kind of line for an hour, but I was stoked. So yeah, that was definitely one of my favourite things. It was the first time I was like, ‘shit you can do this! You can figure out a spot and actually look behind, turn your head, find something else, and try to do the whole thing.’
Jake also asks, what’s your least favourite thing you’ve ever filmed with him?
I mean, that’s a hard question because I guess if you film something and land the trick it’s always good. I’m sure there’s lots of things that I’ve filmed, which have been terrible, because we didn’t get it. But in terms of doing it, I mean, my last trick I had in Atlantic Drift was like an ollie, ollie, then bigspin down these stairs, which I kind of wanted to do to slightly reference an ender I’d had in the past. I also wanted to do it just because I thought it’d be a good trick. But that was in lockdown, and the trains weren’t on. I live like an hour cycle into town. So I was like cycling into town, getting there trying to do it… My legs were fucked. I’d be like, ‘ah so I can’t do it today, whatever…’ I’d snap my board trying it, legs are gone, then I’d have that hour cycle back home. And I mean, that was hard. That was really hard for me, because it was just so fucking all-consuming in my brain and like physically it was just tough to go home. Having those jelly legs and jumping all day and not getting a trick… So that was probably one of the worst things I had to film just because there were no trains because the fucking weird situation with COVID. But saying that, because of COVID it meant that the spot was empty enough. So we did end up getting it and then when I got it, it was one of the best tricks I’ve filmed. That was one of the best moments I’ve had rolling away from it. But I’d say that was one of the toughest ones, definitely.
Frontside 180 kickflip.
And Jake has one more question… He says: ‘If everyone from Atlantic Drift was shipwrecked on an island, who would be the last man standing?’
Ha ha! Ah probably Casper as he’d eat everyone.
The giant baby’s gotta eat! Ha ha!
OK so next is a question from Flo Mirtain: ‘Atlantic Drift is unfortunately not going to be a board company… Have you found a new home yet?’
Yeah, I mean Drift, I guess it’s not really for me to talk about, because I was obviously very excited and on board with that happening. Atlantic Drift was very much Jake’s thing, but also from the beginning it was off the back of like me and him making parts, so we kind of got it going. Jake said himself publicly that he got long COVID, and he was finding everything pretty challenging and just thought it was not a good time mentally to start a company. And honestly, I completely respect that, and at this point I’m actually happy for him, because I feel like where his head was at, it would have been too stressful. So yeah, so he decided not to do it. We know enough people who run brands; it’s fucking tough out there. It’s hard to be able to do it; it’s so time consuming. You guys see doing the mag! Running anything, you constantly have to be going into production.
It’s full-time.
Yeah, it’s full time, it’s time consuming, and then also on top of that, he has to make videos all the time, and then promote it, you know? So big respect to anyone doing a brand out there nowadays! I’ve seen firsthand; it’s really hard. But you know, that’s what happened with that. We were all super… Obviously bummed out, but your friend’s health obviously has to come first. And I’m hyped for him that he made that decision, for him.
Yeah… And then the other part of the question: have you found a new home yet?
Yeah, I think I have… I’m gonna keep that on the low for now though.
All right, I respect that. The next question is from Shane O’Neill: ‘What I want to know is when will the next big Tom Knox x Jacob Harris masterpiece be out? That’s what we are all wanting and waiting for!’
Ah that’s very nice of him to say. It’s hard, these parts I’ve filmed with Jake in the past, they’re incredibly time-consuming and they’re not off the back of a brand wanting to do something with us. It’s off the back of us wanting to do it ourselves. It’s kind of like a personal project. So who knows… At the moment, obviously, like, I’m on brands that are filming videos, I have to do that too. But sometimes with those things it doesn’t come off the same way as you having a couple of years to do your own stuff. But you know what, hopefully they’ll come again soon. I’m still in London, I’m filming with Jake all the time, so we’ve got a couple of parts lined up in the next year.
Frontside shove-it.
OK last question, this is from your oldest daughter Rosie (aged 6): ‘Why do you like skateboarding so much?’
Oh wow, OK, why do I like skateboarding so much… That’s the toughest question so far! I’m stumped. How would I say this to Rosie is what I’m thinking… I like skateboarding so much because you get to be with your friends, it’s good exercise, you learn new things, you learn new skills and have fun, that’s it. And that’s what I try to tell them all the time: just do stuff, if it feels fun, keep doing it. And I try to tell them this all the time when they’re swimming or doing ballet or all that stuff. I’m like, ‘if you’re having fun, just keep doing it.’ And that’s why I like skateboarding; it gets me excited still.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 9, 2019
Stefan Janoski: the early years – in pictures
Pete Thompson was one of the most recognised names in skateboard photography from the mid-nineties to the mid-2000s. He was a staff photographer for
Slap
, then
Transworld
and later contributed to
Skateboarder.
Pete is currently working on a book consisting of largely unseen photos from that era (more on this in the future),  but why we’ve decided to speak to Pete this week is because he was one of the first photographers to consistently shoot with Stefan Janoski. He first shot Stefan when he was a flow kid living in Sacramento and then continued on documenting Stefan’s rise in the skateboarding world until he became a household name. Pete selected a few photos he shot of Stefan at pivotal times in his early skateboarding career and was kind enough to give a little insight.
(Photography and words by
Pete Thompson
)
Nollie 180 kickflip at UC Davis, 1999
This sequence was shot on pretty much the first day I met Stefan. During that time people were going up to Sacramento to shoot with (Brandon) Biebel; his whole career was really starting to explode. So I went up there (from SF) to shoot something with Biebel for
Transworld
. Biebel had a pretty deep crew, I think that day it was him and five of his friends and everyone was pretty good. Biebel was of course like Biebel, super excited and outgoing and then his friend Stefan was sort of off to the side, being quiet, kind of nervous. So Stefan was skating and Biebel being Biebel was like, ‘yo dude my homie Stefan… He rips!’ and so you know I didn’t really think anything of it because it was one of the first few times I had shot with Biebel and I was mostly focused on him. Stefan was like this unassuming kid who wasn’t pushy and like trying to come up; he was just having fun. And then Biebel was like, ‘you should shoot Stefan do this trick,’ and I remember thinking, ‘I hope I have enough film for this whole day.’ (pre-digital photos days) Nothing against Stefan, I just didn’t know who he was and how long it would take him to do it. And I may have even said, ‘yeah I’ll shoot this but I can’t get into it very deep because film is film, and I only have a limited amount.’ I needed to save film to be able to shoot Biebel for the Am Issue. But then he started trying it and I shot it and then he did it. I remember sitting on the stairs and him running back up after he bailed a few and every time he ran up he was smiling and like so psyched, ‘Ah I gotta try it again. I got it, I got it, I got it!’ He was just a very understated guy, he was having fun on his own kind of. He was just psyched to see if he could do it. And then he did it once and it was kind of sketchy and then he did it again. The second one I remember thinking, ‘wow I just got a good sequence on just 2-3 rolls of film,’ and that was rad. But I didn’t think too much of it at the time. The way that he skated, tricks didn’t look that hard for him. They had this finesse that kind of took away from the difficulty of the trick. He just looked lackadaisical a bit, which made you look at what he was doing from a different perspective. So now I look back on this sequence (which was never used) I think, ‘that’s a fucking sick trick! Why didn’t I see this as being as sick as it was?’ and I think it’s just because I went up that time to mainly shoot Biebel. But then every time I went up (to Sacramento) Stefan would get something and that’s kinda how it all started.
Frontside 180 kickflip, San Francisco, 1999
I had been up to Sacramento and shot with Stefan a bit but I think this is the first time I shot with him in San Francisco. I think he had come down to go by Think and see Greg Carroll and those guys. He had just started getting Think boards. I don’t think he had a shoe sponsor yet, but he loved riding Axion shoes. So we went to a lot of spots and this garage door gap was one of them. It wasn’t something that many people skated, but he frontside flipped like 3-4 times in a row just perfect. And again, the way he skated, the lazy, lackadaisical style just made everything look really easy. If he had struggled with stuff more I would have been like, ‘ah yeah it’s sick!’ but it looked so easy for him and it made me doubt it like, ‘ah if he isn’t struggling over this than it must not be that hard.’ But then you take someone else there and they’ll be fighting for it.
Switch heelflip, Fullerton, California, 2000
I was living down in Long Beach at the time, and Stefan came down and I think he was with Kyle Leeper. Stefan stayed with me and I think I had just got on Expedition at that point and not that many people… Nobody knew about him in Southern California. So we go skating and I remember there was a big crew, two carloads of people and we went to this school. And so Stefan was there just cruising around you know… He was somewhat introverted back then, but always really happy. And so Fabrizio (Santos) was starting to skate this gap and then Stefan started to skate it. He switch ollied it first try and I obviously knew who he was, but I think a lot of guys there were like, ‘oh who’s this new guy?’ So then he starts to try to switch heel and asks if it had been done before. ‘Nah I don’t think it’s been done,’ someone says. Fabrizio was trying to frontside flip it, Stefan the switch heel and then they both landed their tricks within a few tries of each other. So it was just rad to see this kid who I’d met in Sacramento who nobody really knew and again, he’s in Southern California now in the same position where no one really knows of him, and he’s just making friends, ripping and having fun. So I just had a sense of, ‘ah this is rad being able to watch this’, not only in Sac (Sacramento) where I first met him, but again in Southern California. After like everyone there was like, ‘all right, who’s this kid? Where’s this guy from?’ There was no social media back then, so when you had a skater that you had seen skating that most people hadn’t seen there was sort of like this thing like, ‘ah yeah I’m gonna bring so and so with me and he’s always gonna get something, people are always gonna be psyched and he’s just a rad addition to the crew no matter where you go.’ And that was Stefan. That day was the day that I realised that you could take Stefan anywhere and he could skate anything and he would do stuff that wasn’t the norm. He could do stuff that a lot of other people considered really hard tricks. He could do them easily and he could do them on gaps, rails, ledges… He could skate anything. The tricks that were easy for him, were really hard for everyone else, and those were his go-to tricks.
Switch crooked grind through the keyhole, MACBA, Barcelona, 2001
This was the first time that both of us had been to Barcelona. It was exciting going there with Stefan because after skating with him in Sacramento and in Southern California I could see how natural and talented he was. You had this sort of feeling like he’s gonna kill it. You could take him anywhere and he would get stuff. He would get sequences, stills, footage, whatever… He just flowed in a way that allowed him to be really productive. So that trip was me, Stefan, Colt (Cannon) and Ricki Bedenbaugh and I remember Stefan was such a skate rat. He was trying to get Ricki out early to film lines at MACBA before everyone woke up, which was funny, because he wanted to skate late at night too. That’s when that nollie backside 5-0 at the MACBA long ledge happened.
Nollie Backside 5-0 grind, MACBA, Barcelona, 2001.
I’ll put it this way: Stefan was so productive on every trip that we went on that there was a point where when he wanted to go skating sometimes I would think twice about bringing my camera, because I was like, ‘we have a million things right now and he’s kind of just in cruise mode,’ but that was a huge mistake because if I went out, and didn’t have my camera, he was gonna do something amazing, ha ha! You know we’d eat and it would be 11:30 at night and he’d be like, ‘hey let’s go down to MACBA.’ He was so productive; that whole trip was like that.
Contact sheet portraits, Sacramento, 2003
I think Stefan is an animated guy and I think that was the idea behind the portraits. He was okay having his portrait taken. A lot of guys where weird about having their portrait taken, but I remember asking him, ‘hey dude can I shoot some portraits of you?’ And he replied (in a soft, quiet voice): ‘ok, cool.’ So this contact sheet ended up being kind of a slice of the different sides of his personality. I think it just shows a sense of him being care free, unassuming and understated. And I think you can see he’s just a fun guy. Not fun I like ‘I’m going to entertain everybody’, but fun from the standpoint of he’s just a happy person.
Switch backside tailslide, Osaka, 2001
Japan was interesting… Everywhere we went Stefan was ripping. He would skate spots by himself, I remember this big set of stairs that he kickflipped and no one else was skating it. It was just him and he was having a great time. Another thing I noticed about Stefan in Japan was that he really fed off the energy of his friends. If his friends were there, his teammates… That was a really powerful element to going out and skating. Kyle (Leeper), Karl Watson, Richard Angelides and the Expedition crew were all there with him and Kyle was one of his closest friends… Also on that trip he discovered… OK Stefan is a quirky guy; he has a quirky sense of humour and his artwork is amazing in a sort of quirky way. This was the trip that I really started to notice this as there’s so much quirky shit happening in Tokyo and he was just loving it. Weird food, weird stores with weird shit in them and he would get so hyped on the silliest little Japanese thing. He would just go off and buy weird Japanese collectibles. Stuff where you’d be like, ‘What is that?’ Oh and the snacks! Oh my god he was so hyped on the Japanese snacks; they’re all individually wrapped and made of who knows what… We had a great time in Japan.
Stefan Janoski and Brandon Biebel, Los Angeles, March 2019
Being around those guys now, 20 years later, is so amazing. After all these years a lot of stuff has changed and a lot of people go different directions and our lives are so different for so many people, and their lives are much different now today as well, but seeing them together… That’s like a friendship that has really great chemistry… And they are such different people, but when I saw them together I had this warmth… Just seeing that friendship that has been strong and consistent for so long… It’s heart-warming.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  April 12, 2018
The Gustav Tønnesen Interview
Photo: Sem Rubio
Have you heard the phrase: ‘your favourite skater’s favourite skater’ before? Well Gustav Tønnesen is just that…
Pekka Løvås
(Oslo’s critically acclaimed VX/HD videographer) told me that on a recent adidas trip Lucas Puig said that Gustav was his new favourite. Does Gustav know this? Did I ask him about this? Well I didn’t bring it up, but not because I didn’t want to know what he thought about it, but because I knew what his reply would be: ‘oh ok’. You may hear terms like ‘the wizard’ or ‘the magician’ to describe Gustav, but for me ‘humble’ is the word that best describes this Norwegian native. If any of you have met Gustav before you’ll know he’s a man of few words, but that doesn’t mean he doesn’t hold strong opinions. Somehow he agreed to share his views with us, so hopefully this interview will shed a little light on this quiet Scandinavian virtuoso, or if nothing else, perhaps some of his humility will rub off on the rest of us.
Ollie up ride on the narrow ledge to pop back in, Nagoya. Ph. Sem Rubio
Interview by Will Harmon
Can you tell me about where you grew up and your early years of skating in Norway?
Gustav Tønnesen: I grew up in a small city called Egersund, a one-hour drive from Stavanger. I was about 9-10 years old, rollerblading like all the kids in the neighbourhood… Then sometimes I would try people’s skateboards, after a short while I started liking that more, so I got a board and started skating. Egersund only had parking garages with pallets to skate in the winter. So after skating for two years or something, I started going to Stavanger every weekend. They had an indoor skatepark and a cool skate scene. I ended up moving to Stavanger when I was 15… I stayed at my grandmother’s house and went to a carpenter school, and skated every day. I kind of liked building stuff when I was young… But the main reason I wanted to move there was so that I could skate more.
Pekka (Løvås) mentioned you moving to Oslo and skating for
Shit skateboards
or something and you working for them?
I got sponsored by Shit skateboards in Stavanger, it was based there… I moved to Oslo when I was 17 I think. They opened a store there where I worked sometimes. I managed to survive on that and getting a bit of money for skating for Shit and Vox footwear.
Kickflip backside smith grind, Mallorca. Ph. Zander Taketomo
‘Money for skating for Shit’, that sounds hilarious! So how did you then get on Sweet and move to Barca?
I got a message from a guy that worked at Junkyard/Sweet in Norway, saying that Bjorn (Holmenäs) wanted to talk about me skating for them. I had seen some of the guys skating on video, and after talking to Bjorn I thought it was a cool thing to join. I was going to Barcelona with a Norwegian crew, and there I met up with Bjorn and some of the guys… After a year of travelling with them, and spending some time in Barcelona, I decided I wanted to move there. Me, Nisse, Spengan and Lomar got an apartment together.
Ah the infamous Locket skate house in Barcelona!
The infamous Locket, ha ha… That’s the apartment we first moved in to. Lots of good times – we skated and filmed pretty much every day. And went out drinking 2-3 times a week… When you first come to Barcelona the party scene is so much fun, but I kind of got tired of it. Now I just go to a bar like once a week.
Who do you live with now?
Now I live in an apartment with my girlfriend, and we have an extra room that friends stay in most of the time. Simon (Isaksson) was staying there a long time, also Nisse and Lomar for a bit…
Switch kickflip, Buenos Aires. Ph. Sam Muller
A couple years ago I had never heard of you filming and then all of a sudden you’d filmed a whole new
Sour promo
. How did you get into filming and how do you think you picked up the skills of filming so well, so quickly? It usually takes people years to perfect a proper filming technique…
After Lomar made the video
The Sour Solution
, he wanted to start studying. So he sold me his VX1000 setup. Simon Isaksson and I thought it would be fun to start filming. He had already filmed a bit before, but the Sour promo was basically the first six months of filming.
I guess I learned from being in front of the camera, working on things with filmers, and looking at videos. Then trying to figure out how to handle the camera. Angles, movements, timing… I’m still learning, but it’s looking better than in the beginning…
So are you and Simon the main filmers for Sour now? Or does Simon just film you?
Yes, more or less. Until now I have filmed almost everything, but I hope Simon will step in more. He has a good eye for filming!
Why don’t you like being filmed in HD? Can you explain your love of the VX over HD?
I’m so used to filming with the VX1000, so I get bummed pretty often on how boring it looks when I film a trick in HD. I just think the 4:3 format looks a lot better than 16:9. I also like the look of VX1000 footage, but most importantly the fact that you can be closer to the skater. It looks faster and has more action. I don’t understand how it makes sense to have more space on the sides, and less on top and bottom… A skater is taller than he is wide. I hope more people start doing it the way James Cruickshank does: HD 4:3.
Backside nosebluntslide, Paris. Ph. Alex Pires
Can you tell us about the Sour video you are working on at the moment? Will everyone have parts? Will it be a ‘full length’? Will you have a full part?
I think we are making a full length. We’ve made a good start; everybody has some cool stuff already! It’s kind of hard to say right now, but I would guess that most of us will have parts. Maybe some shorter or some split parts.
I know you and Simon have been all over Barcelona finding new spots. Do you use Google Street View or how do you explore?
I have used Google Street View to find spots that I forgot exactly where they were… But we have just been going to places on train, metro and bikes, looking around. Sometimes we just end up going around looking all day, almost not skating. Which kind of sucks sometimes, he he… There are still a lot of areas that we haven’t been to.
I take it you’re more into finding and skating new spots when you’re out skating rather than training up at Sants or Macba all day…
Absolutely. We go to a plaza and just skate sometimes as well, but I think it’s definitely more fun to skate different stuff and being in different places.
Switch Pupecki grind, Barcelona. Ph. Zander Taketomo
Is it a conscious thing you guys think about with filming in Barcelona, like ‘ok let’s not really have Macba or Paral-lel footage in our next video’? Or is it not so strict like that?
None of us like to skate
Paral-lel
that much anymore, we liked it more before they changed it. Kind of same thing with Sants… And Macba is too hectic for us. I still like to see footage from Macba; it’s a legendary spot… But it has to be something different or something really good to stand out from all of it.
Who’s always wins at games of S.K.A.T.E. between the Sour team?
No comment.
Ha ha, ok… A little while back you had an Instagram of yourself getting electro shocks into your heel to help your Plantar Fasciitis. Do your feet still bother you?
I could not skate for five or six months because of that, and got pretty scared when I read stories about people that never really healed from it. Now it’s good… I still feel it sometimes, but I found a good way to handle it. When it stopped hurting a lot, I was biking in the mountains every day, to move my feet in a good way – then stretching after. I got some special made insoles the shape of my feet, that I put in every shoe I wear. When I’m not skating, even between spots and sessions, I use adidas Ultra Boost shoes; they are really soft and good for the feet.
Switch crooked grind, Barcelona. Ph. Gabriel Engelke
Are you a skate nerd? Do you watch all the new edits coming out? If so what have you been enjoying recently?
I watch a lot of stuff coming out, and I would say I’m kind of a skate nerd, he he… Mostly I’ll just see posts on Instagram for new parts or edits, and if it looks interesting I’ll watch it. What I’ve been most stoked on these last years is the GX1000 video and
Spirit Quest
. Especially
Spirit Quest
, the filming is so impressive.
Colin Read
is the best filmer of all time in my opinion.
I don’t think I’ve ever seen you angry. Or do you just never get angry whilst skating? Or am I completely trippin’?
No, I don’t get really angry that often. Once a while I’ll get really pissed, but I think it takes a lot. I don’t know what it takes for me to get really angry… Sometimes trying a trick for a long time, but sometimes I just accept that I’m not gonna make the trick and stop trying…
What was it like shooting with Sem (Rubio) for this interview? Do you guys speak with each other in English or Spanish?
Sem always has really nice photos, he’s one of my favourite photographers. So it’s been cool to get stuff with him! We talk in English. I understand a lot of Spanish, but I mostly don’t know enough to have a real conversation…
I’ve heard quite a few people tell me you are one of their favourite skaters. Who are your favourites? Who do you like to watch?
There’s so many, so it’s hard to say… I’ll try to mention a few: Erik J Pettersson, Stefan Janoski, Rodrigo TX, Tom Penny and Tyler Surrey.
You’ve been living in Barcelona for quite awhile now… What do you think of the whole Catalonian independence situation?
I don’t really know enough about it to decide what I think… After that independence-voting day with Spanish riot police coming in to stop the voting with violence, I lost some respect for the Spanish politicians. I don’t see that Cataluña is ever gonna become it’s own country, but I think it’s good that they raise their voice, maybe to get the rest of Spain to be better. Again, I don’t really know…
Switch crooked grind to ride in, London. Ph. Sam Ashley
Have you thought of living anywhere else besides Barcelona? Or are you content with Barca for now?
I thought about that before… I don’t think any city is better to live in than Barcelona. I don’t want to live somewhere that has a bad winter… Even Madrid is really cold in the winter, and super hot in summer. I’m just really into the Barcelona skate scene, plus having Sour and the guys here. And outside of Europe is not really an option to me.
You’ve been travelling a lot with adidas the past couple years with
Away Days
and Skate Copa. Was there anywhere you went where you thought ‘I need to come back to this place again sometime on my own and skate/explore more…’?
I like London a lot. Even though I was there on two trips, ten days each time and I got to see a lot, I would like to go back there again – hopefully with the Sour guys, filming VX1000. All the VX1000 footage from London over the years looks sooo good. Like the Blueprint videos and everything Jacob Harris has made…
I also liked Paris, Santiago in Chile, and Buenos Aires in Argentina… I liked the ghetto areas in South America, it looks like there are gonna be unique spots all over. But it might be risky for blonde Nordic guys to skate there, on somebody’s block…
The last time we had a meeting with the marketing people at adidas they were chatting about that
little clip we filmed of you at Skate Copa
in London and they were like: ‘no more excuses, next year we’re getting him in Street League!’ Did this ever get back to you? Did they ever try to ‘force you’ to do that? Would you ever do it?
He he… They said something like that, but as a joke. I know, and I think they know that I would never skate Street League. I don’t even wanna talk about Street League and explain why…
Frontside nosegrind pop-out, Barcelona. Ph. Sem Rubio
Fair enough. I know in an older interview you had you said you played a little guitar… What are your other interests outside of skateboarding?
Not much, he he. Just hanging out with my girlfriend and the guys. Doing video and other stuff for Sour, which is kind of part of skateboarding…
What other stuff do you do for Sour? Who works on the graphics? Do you all contribute ideas?
We all come with ideas, and work on it with Jack Thompson.
You have a younger brother who skates as well right? Can you tell us about him?
Yes,
Tormod
. He started skating some years after me, when he was six or something. I remember he kickflipped an 8-stair when he was eight, he he. Now he’s bigger than me and ripping! He’s living in Malmö, Sweden, where he went to Bryggeriet, the skate school.
Are your parents pretty supportive of what you guys do? Or did they ever pressure you or your brother to go to university?
They have always supported us with doing what we like. But also worrying a bit, of course… They want us to be able to live, he he.
Have you ever thought about going to university yourself? Is that something you might want to do in the future? If so, what would you study?
I have no idea of what to do after skating… Maybe get into photo/film/design or something. Hopefully within skateboarding.
Pekka mentioned your obsession with mini-spots, tiny kickers. Why are you so into them?
I find it fun to skate small stuff. Low impact. I think it’s great if you can make a trick look good on a small, weird and hard spot.
Describe you ideal skate spot:
That’s hard… I like all kinds of bumps, bump to ledge or rail or whatever – maybe a bump to ledge where you land in a bank going down from the ledge.
Sour just put on its first French rider, Oscar Candon. I hear Sour has US distribution now too. Would you guys consider an American rider?
Yes, Oscar is sick. Most of us knew him from before, and we thought it would be cool to have him on the team. It’s harder with Americans, because the few Americans we know are already on a board company. It would have to be someone that would fit in naturally with the crew, not just put on somebody that skates good.
Switch backside smith grind, Barcelona. Ph. Sem Rubio
OK we spoke with the Sour guys to make some ‘would you rather questions’. Here they go: would you rather film an HD part for Red Bull or be locked inside a room with 15 spiders for 24 hours?
That’s a hard question. We went to Stockholm and there were a lot of spiders in Nisse’s house. We just tried to get rid of them all. Umm…
I guess I would film an HD part for Red Bull. (Laughs)
OK!
Or what, can I kill the spiders?
Yeah you could try; you’re in the room.
OK yeah then I’d kill the spiders.
OK the next one is: would you rather give a 30-minute speech about Sour at a packed trade show venue or wear the Sweet x Helly Hansen gear exclusively for your next video part?
I’d speak about Sour. I wouldn’t like it, but I’d try.
OK would you rather wear only medium t-shirts for a month or eat food that’s 24 hours expired for a month?
(Laughs) Umm… I guess I would do the medium size… ‘Cause I know there’s some really big sized adidas ones.
Would you rather produce a documentary about yourself, complete with voiceover, or be the next announcer for the next Barcelona Street League comp?
(Laughs) It’s impossible to answer some of these, the ‘would you rathers’. I guess I would do the Street League one.
Ha ha, ok cheers. Any last words, thanks?
Family and friends. Adidas, Sour and Sessions Skateshop.
Flip through this photo gallery for all the photos from Gustav’s interview:
View Gallery | 12 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  December 24, 2021
The Most Fun Thing: an Interview with Kyle Beachy
Kyle Beachy at Chase in Chicago. Ph. Tim Pigott
The first time I met
Kyle Beachy
was in London in 2018. He was crouched down at Canada Water tending to Ted Barrow, who was lying there having just broken his arm. I had just arrived for a pre-arranged session, but with Ted’s sudden accident, the intended crew for the morning skate before day two of
Pushing Boarders
had suddenly shrunk. Kyle went with Ted in a taxi to the hospital so we didn’t get a chance to properly chat, but we kept in touch, and soon after we published his highly contentious
Primitive Progressivism
piece on our website. A year later we met again in Malmö at the second Pushing Boarders conference. This time we got to drink beers, skate, hang out and really get to know each other (Ted was there too, arm fully healed and challenging us to switch backside flip competitions). Kyle chaired
a discussion at that PB
, which included Nick Sharratt of
Palomino
fame. Anyways, to cut to the chase: Nick, Kyle and I all became good friends and we got to hang out together again this year at the
Vladimir Film Festival
in Croatia, which was really sick (Kyle lives in Chicago, where he teaches creative writing at Roosevelt University). But enough about this bromance, it’s basically a long-winded way to introduce this interview with Kyle, by Nick and I, about Kyle’s book: ‘
The Most Fun Thing: Dispatches From A Skateboard Life.
’
Kyle’s new book consists of a curated selection of his essays written in the past ten years. The essays cover a range of topics like: his love/hate relationship with Nike SB and their Blazers, wrestling with the fact of aging whilst still being in love with an activity that’s essentially a young person’s game, a day spent in the surreal world of Chaz Ortiz, and many others. Also, I would be remiss not to mention that Kyle is adept at something that we just don’t see enough of in traditional skateboard media: critique. Talk that was previously reserved for private WhatsApp groups and message boards with anonymous users has now been analysed, articulated and published thanks to Kyle and Grand Central Publishing. Look no further than Chapter Two of Kyle’s book about Nyjah Huston’s
Rise & Shine
part:
‘He skates with his trucks rigidly tight, keeping his lines straight and landings perfect. Anything less requires a quick tick-tack adjustment­––a clunky, artless flourish and probable cause for editing that cuts landings as soon as his legs absorb the impact. Every time: feet wide, strategic, automatic. Soulless.’
That’s just a snippet of one chapter amongst the many within
The Most Fun Thing
. In my opinion (and Nick’s as well) Kyle’s book is one of the greatest pieces of skateboarding nonfiction ever written. After reading his book I was left with the same feeling I’d had after the first time I’d seen Dennis Busenitz skate in the flesh: seriously, what have I been doing all these years?
But to spare you from my personal introspection and also for the sake of brevity, it’s time to hear from Kyle himself.
–Will Harmon
Interview by Nick Sharratt & Will Harmon
Will: This isn’t your first novel, how does
The Most Fun Thing
differ from your other book?
Kyle: Well, my other book is a novel, a novel proper. It’s called
The Slide
and I have three copies of it, and I don’t know how many more exist in the world. You know, eventually, the publisher a) stops making them and b) they pulp them. They turn them back into pulp so they can reuse the material.
Will: Ah okay.
Kyle: The bleakest thing to think of is that your book you’ve spent years working on has been pulped.
Will: Yeah but it’s good for sustainability, ha ha.
Kyle: Yeah (laughs). From the earth we come, and back to it we will go. So, you know that’s a novel proper right, it’s a fictional narrative about a young man whose story vaguely overlaps with my life. Like a lot of first novels my book
The Slide
is drawn very much from my experience up until that point.
The Most Fun Thing
– technically, it’s not a novel, it’s a collection of nonfiction. I mean it does end up becoming a little bit of a memoir or nonfiction about the life that I live as I’m trying to write these things about skateboarding. So there are a lot of interesting conversations these days about art and truth and where, you know, where the line between a fictional narrative and truth is. Writing about oneself truthfully, really where we draw that line… But you know I guess the main difference is that in
The Slide
I was trying to make as interesting a story as possible and in The Most Fun Thing I was really just interested in being as truthful as possible about my experience.
Nick: I think it does, I mean that’s one of my takeaways from it, it’s that it does come across as truthful. I think there are some bits that are truthful to the point where there’s probably some people that might be a bit pissed off with how truthful you’ve been for us right? Like maybe your girlfriend, for example?
Kyle: Yeah. You know, I was very upfront with my wife Kristin.
Will: You mean K?
Kyle: Yeah in the book she’s K. Yeah, you know I was very up front with her as I was writing this material. And you know the period that a good deal of the book is about, is about a very dark period for us in terms of our marriage and so there is quite a bit of sort of, you know intimate or details that people would generally hold close. But my sense is, ultimately, I end up kind of taking a stance on skateboarding that says skateboarding is kind of inseparable from the kind of person you are, and the kind of life that you lead, that it’s kind of folly to try to separate skateboarding from the rest of your life. So you know, at a certain point, it just became important to dig into that material a little bit. I will say that we’ve (my wife and I) been very up front and open about it, as I was writing it. I don’t know… You can never tell totally if someone is completely okay, with a thing. But my sense is that she understands the project pretty well and understands why it was necessary for me to speak intimately about our private lives.
Will: I also think to be in a relationship with a skateboarder you just have to have a lot of understanding full stop about what it is to be a skateboarder and what that entails, and how they’re going to be grumpy if they don’t get to skate enough.
Kyle: Yeah, yeah, I think so. And I think also a lot of what the project ends up being too is trying to find different ways into skateboarding. You know when I get kind of my least sufferable, or I guess when I get my least generous in the book is when I’m very critical about the ways that skateboarding conversations have always gone. And I’m pretty open about like, well what if we come at it from this different place? What if what if I come from a position of marriage into skateboarding? Or I come from a position of aging into skateboarding, or reading and writing, and I tried to like, access skateboarding but through that sort of weird back door. So, really, it was just a question of: what does skateboarding look like if you come at it through these other sorts of entryways that haven’t traditionally been doorways to skateboarding?
The Most Fun Thing, 2021, published by Grand Central Publishing
Will: Well, one of the things that when I was reading – and I thought, how refreshing it was – I think because in my job I’m always interviewing Pro skateboarders, or you know people that make a living off skateboarding… And so, it was really refreshing to read about someone who has skateboarding as their pastime and they love it and it’s such a part of their life yet this is not how they make money, being a skateboarder. It was just really nice to read something like that and people’s thoughts and views, because I think it’s something that I’ve experienced myself: I don’t make money off skateboarding but I make money talking about skateboarders, (laughs) I guess.
Kyle: Yeah. I’ve always been very, very happy to not be dependent on the industry at all.
Will: Right, yeah.
Kyle: I think a lot of my interest in writing about skateboarding comes, or is naturally tied to the fact that I don’t really have any skin in the game, you know? Like the injuries I suffer from skateboarding are never financial. Yeah so at times, that means being able to maybe ask questions without having to fear the kind of reprisals that the skate industry is sort of famous for. I mean one of the dark things about this industry is that it’s notorious for deciding who gets to be part of it and who doesn’t.
Will: Yeah that’s true. And that actually kind of brings us to another question we had about the
Primitive Progressivism
article that was finally published online. I kind of wanted to ask, have you had any personal blowback or whatnot? What has that changed for you, since it’s fully out there, and anyone can see it now? It’s also in the book, I’ll remind the readers.
Kyle: Yeah, it’s a chapter in the book and then I kind of expand a little bit on the chapter to talk about the story of how that article came to be. And you know, meeting you guys at
Pushing Boarders
and how central that was to the experience – the first Pushing Boarders. I don’t know that I’ve suffered any blowback that I’ve recognised.
I mean I’m certain there are probably people within skateboarding who are disinterested or disinclined to pick up my book or have opinions about me based on that one article, and that’s perfectly fine, but you know, like I said I don’t know… There’s no real martyr situation here. Like I didn’t suffer at all from that. Yeah, I got a lot of thank you notes from people. I was introduced to a whole lot of people who I wouldn’t otherwise have met. I mean for me, I’m in this sort of very fortunate situation where writing a thing that at the time was sort of controversial actually ended up serving me well, because I got to have all of these different conversations after it. You know there’s no real blowback to speak of. Um, and that could be for a number of reasons…
Nick: That’s really quite refreshing really isn’t it?
Kyle: Yeah.
High praise for The Most Fun Thing
Nick: Following on from Will’s, my initial question was: do you think you’d find it much easier to find a home for that article now rather than then? But on the back of what you’ve just said, do you think if you wrote and released that article now you would have received more blowback now? Just due to the times we live in now, that if somebody likes something they’re going to talk about it more, and if somebody doesn’t like something they’re gonna shout about it even more.
Kyle: Yeah, I mean that’s interesting, that’s an interesting thought experiment. I think the skateboarding industry three years later, or more than three years later, is now much better equipped to handle its own sort of internal outbursts, like this.
Will: I agree.
Kyle: Yeah, I think the industry itself wouldn’t respond, the way it did – which essentially – I mean it’s dangerous to talk about ‘the industry’ but you know the real challenge for me was that it was it was just silence, you know it’s just crickets from the sort of people that we depend on to kind of help us understand what’s going on in skateboarding.
Will: Yeah Ryan Lay, he was the first Pro to say anything.
Kyle: Ryan was perfectly comfortable talking about it and I think also understood that in a sense he might have needed to, right? Like someone in pro skating had to be the one to talk about it first.
Will: And did you actually know Ryan then or did you not know him yet?
Kyle: I didn’t know him very well. I mean I had maybe a conversation or two, with him, but that was really the way that I came to know him at all. And that was something he put out on his own Instagram before anything. So yeah I mean Nick, I think that’s an interesting question. I mean I guess my sort of answer is: like I don’t think it could happen now… There’s too much of the industry now, that has a vested interest in inclusivity. Like the industry has turned a corner, where they seem you know, the people who are selling things, seem to recognise that it is in their interest, it is in their company’s interests to appeal to a more diverse and broader consumer base. I mean to be totally kind of, you know shallow and cold about it, there is some kind of just pure market logic at play with that.
Nick: It’s that sad thing isn’t it? It’s the bigger corporate companies that are doing the most to push inclusivity and progression but it’s like, yeah they are they only doing it because they think it’s going to make them loads of money? But in the end, the net gain is good.
Kyle: Right. That’s a sneaky thing too right? It does get very murky like when the net gain is positive, the question becomes ultimately like: does it matter where it’s coming from?
Will: But also, I wanted to ask, when you wrote
Primitive Progressivism,
was this kind of a response to, ‘I can’t believe no pro skaters are saying anything’, or did you want to write that immediately when you heard about these allegations?
Kyle: It was less for me about pro skaters and it was more for me about having spent as much money as I have over my life into this industry.
Will: Ok yeah.
Kyle: At a certain point you want to believe that the thing, the hobby, the culture, the thing that has taken so much of my resources right, I mean since eight years old I’ve been buying skateboard shit. You know it was really a matter of disappointment that this thing I have supported, this thing that has in so many ways defined how I learned how to be a person… It felt like there was an obvious hole and silence in the way that this thing, this institution, this culture was responding, which was essentially trying to avoid it and just pretend like nothing had happened.
Will: Brush it under the rug, yeah.
Kyle: Yeah so I was made angry. I was disappointed and angered. And you know that’s not in pro skaters per se, or specific brands per se, it was more kind of a whole macro view of: man, this culture sure could use some work.
Nick: OK, without us ending up just having a personal conversation about this for two hours and forgetting the fact that we’re doing an interview with you for Free, it is insane to think that was only three years ago. And, like the reaction to that coming out now compared to then. It would just be like, people would be falling over themselves to cancel him.
Will: Yeah how much has the world changed in the past two years! So much…
Kyle: Yeah it is, and you know the big question would become like are we, are we better equipped now to actually have the conversations beyond, you know, quote unquote cancelling? Like cancelling is a kind of tool… Everyone has found a way to make cancelling sort of fit into his or her ideological system. And the question I wonder is, are we actually better equipped now to have the conversation about it? Or would we just be better equipped to push him out of the industry?
Will: Yeah, interesting…
Kyle: Yeah would it be just a faster sort of ejection, or would it be like actually a substantial conversation about what has happened, what needs to change, how we go about making that change and so on. And Nick to your point like I don’t know that Jason Jesse himself would do better now than he did three years ago, in terms of learning about what has happened. I mean because my understanding is that part of the challenge is that so many people within the industry had a reason to believe that Jesse, Jason Jesse, was a different person than that. You know so many people had firsthand experience to say, ‘wait a minute, no this isn’t the person I know.’
And so at the core of this is a question about a human being and how much harm that human being can do, and how that human being learns and changes going forward, and I don’t know necessarily that we’re better three years down the road at doing that sort of more important kind of work behind. We might just be a lot quicker to get it out of here.
Will: Air it out quick; I see what you’re saying…
Kyle: Eject, exit, abort, etc.
Will: Yeah.
Nick: I mean, I think we’ve kind of proved a lot of the times; it is good to do so.
Kyle: Yes…
Nick: A lot of your writing, and this book is, is analysing skateboarding and analysing what it means to you, and in that sort of like memoir sense of how it has shaped you and everything, do you ever worry that you can over analyse it? It comes across in the book how much pure joy you take from just going skateboarding. Do you think by, in your tying yourself in knots to write the best thing you can write about skateboarding, you take something away from the simplicity of it?
Kyle: Yeah no, I think that’s an important question and the first thing I would say is that boy I’ve wrestled with that a lot myself. I can say that; I know that. Once the book was out, I did not have any interest in continuing to write more things about skateboarding for a period. There was a period as soon as the book came out where I was relieved to not have to watch the new video that came out in a hypercritical way, that I did not have to think about each thing I did as it relates to this ongoing project of trying to understand skateboarding. So I can say that I felt relief as a writer and a skateboarder to get back to skating. You know when I went to Fažana (Croatia) I was very pleased to not be writing about it, I was very pleased to be there experiencing it with total sort of innocence and presence. I mean because that’s one of the challenges is that when you are writing about a thing, it’s difficult to always know that you’re fully in the thing, because you’re kind of commenting and noting and analysing…
Kyle gives a reading at the Vladimir Film Festival, September 2021. Ph. Will Harmon
Will: Yeah I know this feeling…
Kyle: Right! But I think I think Nick, you’re also asking a bigger question, though, that I hear, which is like, is this ultimately maybe harmful for one’s experience with skateboarding? Like is there a way that I am somehow undercutting what skateboarding actually relies on, which is the sort of innocent naive kind of wonderful thoughtlessness?
And I guess again, the first thing I would say is, my hope would be that I don’t imply at any point that other people should be thinking more seriously about what they’re doing. Everyone’s relationship to skateboarding is their own relationship to skateboarding. And all I’ve done is set out to ask some hard questions about my own relationship to skateboarding. I do think that there is something wonderful and beautiful about the thing that is unexamined. I think that there’s something to be said for the relationship that we allow to just be what it is and we don’t ask questions of it.
For me, that relationship exists with such things as food or largely music, you know, like, in choosing to write about skateboarding I understood that I was going to complicate in some ways, what would otherwise be an innocent and joyful relationship. I got my start writing about music and the reason I stopped writing about music was because it just started fucking with the way I heard music and I didn’t want that. I didn’t want to keep thinking about structure and the you know where the album fits politically into some sort of spectrum, I just wanted music to be the sort of thing I don’t know very much about and that I can just enjoy innocently and naively.
Nick: The one nice thing that we have with skateboarding compared to music is that, like they’re two sort of like accepted…As in the currencies of skating, like the photo and the video, so often there’s not really any politics involved in that part of it. There’s no grand statement. But we still end up tying ourselves in knots talking about the pants and how high this person’s socks are pulled up and everything, so it’s like, we can start to over analyse it, but a lot of the time that over analysing is ridiculous.
Kyle: Yeah.
Will: But also, I think it has to do with the age that we are, and I think you mentioned this in your book, we actually think about skateboarding way more than we get to do it now because of our ages and you know, our adult responsibilities.
Kyle: Yeah.
Will: And so I think analysing it, in a sense it’s enjoyable because it is something that isn’t analysed that much – the actual somewhat academic analysis of skateboarding is rare… I don’t know how to say it, but…
Kyle: Well, the thing I would stress Will, if I can hop back in here is that one thing I do believe, though, like as far as the rewards of thinking too seriously about a thing is that, I do believe that there are values to the activity, there are rewards to the activity that have been under-circulated. I mean we speak very, very fluently these days about how the failure in skateboarding is so important because you know it teaches us hard lessons about perseverance and getting back up and so on. I will say that there was some relief in setting it down and going back to skating without thinking about it. The thing I would never undo is the sort of, the way that I found skateboarding to help me understand the projects of the humanities, which are essentially about selfhood and one’s experience of time, and you know the very real way that our interpersonal relationships are based on performances, right? I mean what skateboarding has done for me has given me a way to understand those sort of interpersonal performances to understand how much of my relationship to my wife is the way that I watch her. And the way that I see her move through a space, and likewise the way she sees me and understands me. So you know all of that stuff is the reward for the overthinking and my hope would be that people who come to this book, and are patient with it, and are willing to go on this kind of long winding journey. It is my hope that they come away to realise that this thing they do is giving them rewards that they might not have appreciated.
Kyle in 1994.
Will: Yeah, yeah.
Kyle: It’s less about breaking down skateboarding and it’s more about like, ‘hey look at the beautiful thing that you’re up to,’ you know.
Nick: If I can say, I think you’ve achieved that.
Kyle: Oh that’s wonderful. Thank you, good.
Will: Well, I love the book, but I mean I’m a skateboarder. I’m kind of curious as to what feedback you’ve gotten from non-skateboarders about your book?
Kyle: Yeah you know I mean it’s hard to say. It’s hard to know exactly… I mean I know that people I personally know who are non-skateboarders, I’ve had excellent conversations with them about it.
Will: Ah great.
Kyle: What’s harder to know is how the kind of broader public feels. I’ve had a couple interviews with people who are not skaters, who seem to have asked questions that make it feel like ‘oh man you got something out of this’, you know ‘you get it’. I know that there are some writers I admire very much who very early on came to me and said, ‘oh man this has given me an understanding I didn’t have before’ and so on, but you know it’s just a very hard question to answer. Like I might be the worst person in the world to know how people are actually experiencing this because the way that people talk to me about it is always going to be skewed by the dynamics of our relationship and the fact that I wrote the book, so I don’t know I just simply do not know.
Nick: All right.
Kyle: As unsatisfying as an answer that is, I’m sorry (laughs).
Will: Nah, that’s interesting. I read one of the reviews by someone that was talking about your book and he wasn’t a skateboarder but he said all these glowing things, so it does make me think people will enjoy it you know, even if they don’t skate.
Kyle: And I think I think you have to be open to the possibility that skateboarding might be worthwhile, right.
Will: Yeah.
Kyle: A book is a long – it’s a big request right, I mean asking for 20 some hours of your life, so that’s a big ask, and so, if there are people who have just decided already that skateboarding is something they already know, they’ve filed it into this slot in the world, I don’t know that they’re going to be open to kind of what the book is asking of them. I mean it requires a curiosity; it requires an openness to the possibility that skateboarding might be interesting, that it might be worthy of 20 hours or so of their thought.
Will: True.
Nick and Kyle, last call at the Vladimir Film Festival, 2021. Ph. Will Harmon
Nick: In the last two years, it seems like there has been a real explosion in skate literature. Like there are loads of books now written about skateboarding, all different kinds, do you have an opinion on why that might be? It can’t just be coincidence that for 40-50 years there’s been basically nothing and then all of a sudden, there is, like a wealth of them. And all different kinds, like yours, a friend of ours Jono, ah you’ve read
Jono’s book
haven’t you?
Kyle: Love Jono’s book yeah…
Nick: …
Walker Ryan’s book
or, like all very different and but there’s more in the pipeline,
Jose Vadi’s book
. What do you think it’s about the times that we’re in that has got people to the point of getting these across the finish line?
Kyle: First of all, I agree that we are in a kind of golden era of skateboarding writing or skateboarding literature. Part of it has to do with publishing and the shape of publishing. I mean with on demand publishing smaller presses like
Red Fez
that put out Jono’s book, is able to do that. I mean you know, in the same way that you know Walker Ryan’s book benefits from the sort of infrastructure of self-published work and self-published distribution, right? Like those are new avenues for book publishing that didn’t exist 20 years ago. So things that might have turned into books in the 1990s, or the oughts, became like zines or they became blogs.
Will: Blogs yeah, I remember there were some good ones.
Kyle: Ted Barrow hit me to this blog project… I think it was called ‘What We Talked About When We Talk About Mike Carroll’ and it’s essentially book length fanfiction of 1990s era, like San Francisco and it’s a wild, wild project, but the reason that wasn’t a book was because publishing wasn’t in the state that it is now, which is essentially that you know books are made are legitimised by the way that they’re published. Red Fez is one guy running a press out of his garage and that’s it; that’s all it takes. And so it doesn’t require the whole machinery of New York publishing in order to find its way out there.
I also think that part of it has to be as simple as the people who are at book writing age now grew up with skateboarding in their lives, but not in their lives in the ways that it was in the very early 90s, where it was all of your life, right? I mean there was a time where to be a skater meant you were only a skater. And, and that’s kind of shifted, right? I mean you don’t have to look farther than you know the Isle guys to realise like… There’s no longer this sort of hardcore test, where, if you do other things you are somehow being dishonest to skateboarding, that if you have interests beyond skateboarding you are somehow less of a skater, right? That conception is totally out the door, but I think, for a long time that was part of it, that the person who would go through the amount of time to make a book should have just been skateboarding.
Will: I see.
Kyle: So I don’t know that’s part of it. I remember a moment when a friend and I were watching… I think it was a Nike ad, maybe like a
Darius Miles ad
it was in that era of like sort of late ‘90s, and they the song they used was
‘Now You’re Mine’ by Gang Starr
. And I remember at the time being, like ‘oh my god, how did this song – that I think of as like this personal underground Hip Hop song – make its way into this nationwide ad?’ And the fact is that the people who are making the ads carry their interests with them.
Will: Yeah, yeah.
Kyle: It’s a pretty simple reality, but that’s how cool shit ends up being part of popular culture. It’s that thing where people that are passionate about a thing carry it with them into their jobs. So my job is literature, and to make literature as rich of an experience as possible is to write about this thing that I love and that I don’t believe anyone has written about in this way. That’s like a one two combo.
Here’s an interest I have, and here seems like an opportunity, because people haven’t addressed it in this way and it just ends up being what it is. I mean Jose’s book is a great example… It’s not a book about skateboarding, that’s just that’s a book about California and the man who wrote it happens to be a devoted skater and a real historian of skateboarding and it made him – just as much as his family’s history, his geographical history – skateboarding is every bit as important as, in terms of who he became, as a Californian.
Will: Yeah.
Kyle: And that’s just it, you know it made us who we are and it would be untrue for me to write something right now that wasn’t somehow about skateboarding, or about bodies, or about space, etc.
Will: So going with a big publisher like this for your book… Did that change things? Did you have an editor? How did that go? As opposed to like, publishing yourself, like a lot of people do.
Kyle: Well, you know I frame that in terms of not having to change things, but the reality is, that there’s nothing better in the world than having an editor who understands your work.
Will: Right yeah.
Kyle: Having an editor who gets your project and pushes you toward what they understand your project is sometimes better than you do is the most ideal situation in the world. Being able to bounce ideas off this person, being able to submit rough pages and have them see something in those rough pages that you didn’t see a connection that you didn’t see, you know. The editorial process with a good smart committed editor who is engaged with your project is the best thing in the world, and you don’t get that with self-publishing. You know I’m a person who believes in revision and there’s nothing I’ve written, there’s nothing in this book that didn’t go through, you know, six, seven rounds of hard revision. And that’s not a thing that you get when you do it yourself, you know you might have friends who will help you out, you might have you know, a mentor, maybe you can ask for their time, but the best possible way, I think, is to have a committed editor, to have someone whose job that is and who has a stake in the book. I mean my editor, in acquiring this book, which is to say, buying this book, has a vested interest in this book doing well. And I appreciated that. It ends up being a kind of partnership and that partnership was really important to me. My editor’s name is Wes Miller and he is a skater. He lives in Jersey and we geeked out pretty hard about skateboarding as we were writing it and that.
Will: (Laughs) That’s cool!
Kyle: It was amazing (laughs). Yeah that was key.
Kyle Beachy, car park life. Ph. Tim Pigott
Will: One of the first things, maybe it’s like the second chapter, I know it was written in 2011 and I’m wondering at what point in the writing of all these essays did you decide: ‘hey I think I want to put these in the book,’?
Kyle: The book didn’t become a book until very late in the process right, I mean there was a point where I pitched about 15 of these chapters, I think of them as articles or essays, that I pitched them to a small press here in Chicago called Featherproof Books and the guy who runs that, a guy named Tim Kinsella, he’s like a rock star and he’s a really cool guy. Well he’s friends with Atiba (Jefferson) and so he had this idea that we could get photos from Atiba and we could make like this indie press skate book. And you know these things, you have conversations about them and they never materialise, and that might have been in like 2015-2016. So, at that point, I kind of had the idea that it could become a book, maybe down the road. But you know, the thing I would stress is that what I was writing at this time, primarily what I thought of as my project, was this novel – this totally other project that was fiction, a work of fiction, about skateboarding.
Will: Ah so kind of like the excerpt that we ran in
Free
?
Kyle: Right.
The Poison Buffet
, which ran in
Free
…
Will: Ah ok.
Kyle: Yeah that manuscript exists, that is a project that to me was my main project and so these articles were a way to kind of do something else.
Nick: What plans, if any, do you have for that fiction novel then?
Kyle: Well, I think I figured out how to make it good, like I sort of think I figured it out. Really, really stupid thing to say in public and it’s a profoundly stupid thing to say on record, but I do think that my time away from the novel, thinking about this book and taking skateboarding as seriously as this book does, has kind of freed up that project that is fiction as maybe taking some of the burden off of it. You know, like I wanted really badly to ask some hard questions about skateboarding. It was pretty clear that a novel, a fictional novel, was the wrong place to do that. And so now, what I’m finding as I go back to that book is that you know there’s actually a lot of really wonderful material there, it’s just taking itself way too seriously. And so what I’m trying to do is go back in and see what happens if it allows some looseness into it a little bit.
Will: Yeah I see what you’re saying, because you have that that piece of work now that has these serious discussions, and now you can go back to the other one and be like ‘no, I just want this to be fictionalised’ and it doesn’t have to ask these hard questions and whatnot.
Kyle: Yeah, and I mean, I think you know, anyone who makes work of any sort knows that the relationship between ambition and the sort of pressures one puts oneself under, you know, there’s a real sweet spot for that.
Will: Yeah.
Kyle: You have to hold yourself to a high standard in order to have the sort of diligence required to make a body of work. But it’s very easy for some of us, and for me it’s very easy for that sort of determination, ambition and that sort of pressure that one puts on oneself, to go too far. And what’s clear is that in trying to write this novel I went too far, and I got too hard on myself, and I expected things out of the project, that the project wasn’t right for.
And so it was a very, very long and indirect process to learning a whole lot about what it means to make art. And it was bad, it was dark, you know there were some very dark periods that I moved through as I was writing the original book and The Most Fun Thing sort of accidentally came out of that work.
Nick: Did you think you might actually be able to have fun writing, in like going back to that and working on it? Rather than it just being a burden?
Kyle: Well what I can say is that the six months that I spent writing basically, the second half of
The Most Fun Thing
was the easiest, most joyful writing that I’ve ever done in my life. It was totally unlike any other period of productivity that I’ve ever known. And I do think I’ve learned something from that process about what works for me and what my lane sort of is… You know a lot of the challenge of being a writer is figuring out where you want to position yourself, or what sort of work you want to make.
Will: Yeah…
Kyle: And I think what
The Most Fun Thing
taught me is that, like I have a gear, you know, I do have a way of writing where it doesn’t have to kill me, where I’m not disappointed in it, where I don’t find it hideous, and that I can actually continue producing it, and it doesn’t kill me. You know that’s it, like how to make art without that artwork damaging you.
Will: And was it difficult, putting together things you’d written in 2011 to the things you’d written in 2020? Because did you see your writing changing at all?
Kyle: You know, it wasn’t, I mean the essays are very different right?
Will: Yeah, they’re all quite different.
Kyle: Dylan Reider or the Picasso statue that’s in the last part of the book is a very different thing than that first Nyjah Huston article or the Nike article that’s early in the book. What is clear though, is that the questions I was asking, or the sort of way that I was kind of adjusting skateboarding under my own sort of microscope, they were always part of the same project. You know when I finished one I didn’t want to ask those questions anymore.
Will: I got you.
Kyle: I wanted to ask different questions, and so there was a way that it was always kind of a unified project. Even when I thought of them as like separate articles, I was kind of moving through this sort of ongoing thing, and that was a challenge sometimes. I would have editors who would say things like, ‘hey, I need you to explain to us why skateboarding films are important at all.’ I was like, ‘well I already did that,’ like I’ve already done that work elsewhere, I don’t want to do that for this article. So yeah even when I thought of them as kind of standalone things they were always for me this kind of bigger… I don’t know journey or quest or whatever it was.
Nick: Quest! Quest!
Will: I think we should mention
Vent City
a bit because you’re on a podcast that some readers might not know about. Can you explain how this podcast differs from other skate podcasts out there?
Kyle: Ryan Lay was the sort of the organiser of
Vent City
. And its purpose was to have conversations that you know at the time, I guess we’ve been two years now, but at the time were less common than they are now.
Will: Yep.
Kyle: I mean the hope was always, I think, with Vent City that it would no longer be strange at some point to be talking about skateboarding the way that we were. And I don’t think it as strange now to do, right? Like, we were sort of labelled like the ‘woke podcast’ for a bit, the Marxist podcast for a bit, but you know I mean I think a lot of people are having those conversations now. The Vent City crew is:
Ryan Lay
,
Ted Schmitz,
Ted Barrow
, formerly of @Feedback_TS,
Kristin Ebeling
, pro for Meow Skateboards and runs Skate Like A Girl in Seattle and elsewhere, and then
Alex White
, who is a long-time skate rat and now does announcing and works for Krux. Both she and Kristin work for Krux now, so you know a mixture of people in and out of the industry talking openly about the way that the industry could get better. Could improve…
Will: Yeah, could be different…
Kyle: And so maybe the distinguishing factor there is we’re very interested in possibility. Like what other models might there be for skate shops? Or how else might it look to be a pro skater instead of this incredibly abusive form of halfway employment where you’re essentially a contractor and you have (in the US) no health insurance, like how else might this go? Given yeah, the world we live in…
Will: Have the discussions on this podcast kind of given you ideas of things you’d further want to explore and actually possibly write about yourself?
Kyle: Yeah I think so… I mean I think they’re all part of the same sort of swirling ecosystem of curiosity. You know that’s it man, you know when it comes down to it, and this gets back to you Nick, to your earlier question, like the only way that any of this makes any sort of progress is if people are curious about how it might look, or how else it might go, or ask questions of the thing that we might otherwise just take for granted and not wonder about. So Vent City comes from a place of curiosity for the most part, but there’s also a fair amount of shit talking, you know? Like any skateboard conversation we also talk shit…
Will: I think that’s refreshing actually. I don’t know, so many other podcasts just won’t talk any shit…
Nick: Vent City is definitely divisive, I don’t mean like through any exclusion of yours, if you’ve got people either lovin’ or hatin’ what you’re doing I think you’re kind of on the right track. And if somebody hates it, at least you’ve pissed them off, and if you’ve pissed them off you’ve garnered some kind of reaction from them.
Kyle: Yeah.
Nick: Like you know if someone’s just apathetic to what you’re doing it’s like, ‘who gives a fuck?’ You’d rather have these people really like it, and these people really hate it. And there’s going to be some people that will listen to it, maybe, assuming that they’re going to hate it because they’ve had it described to them as the ‘woke podcast’ or however else. And then it’s going to make them think about something and even if they’re only thinking about it and it doesn’t change their mind, they’ve at least thought about it.
Kyle: And Nick I mean you’re in a good position to answer this, like do you think skateboarding is now more willing to kind of embrace that sort of philosophy? Like for so long so much of skating was just doing what we knew worked, right? Like just a new brand that that takes this sort of idea and combines like a little bit of Habitat, with a little bit of I-Path with a you know a little bit of a New York flavour and we know all these things work and, like here’s the new brand. We don’t see that as much anymore, right? It seems like skateboarding to me, and I’m really curious if you agree or disagree with this from where you stand – brands and companies are more inclined toward that philosophy you just described, where it’s like we’re gonna do our thing. And some people are going to be super into us some people are not, right? Like Last Resort, is going to be what they are, and people are going to feel them or they’re not.
Nick: I listen to like a nerdy film podcast every week and there’s a film critic called Mark Kermode and he loves saying the same thing over again, but of his kind of things he regularly says is: you’d rather see somebody try and fail than not see them try at all, and so I think what you’re saying is totally right. I mean you’ll get a company that does something different, regardless of whether people are going to like it, and inevitably loads of people are then going to copy it, if it works. You’re never going to be able to get rid of that. But I think more and more now companies can just do what they want, because you have to have so much less skin in the game to see if it’s gonna work. You have to throw less shit to see if it sticks right? It’s like, that it never needs talking about again, like smaller minimum board orders and it’s cheaper to make T shirts and da da da, right?
Kyle gets nasal, Chicago. Ph. Tim Pigott
Kyle: Yeah.
Nick: Say a company like, for me personally, like a company like
Frog
. When I first saw Frog I was like, are you fucking kidding me?
Kyle: Totally (laughs).
Nick: But then it’s like, I’m not gonna ever wear a Frog T-shirt I don’t think. I don’t think I’m ever gonna skate a Frog board, but I’d kind of say Frog is one of my favourite companies out there at the moment because it is just like, ‘Fuck you guys, we’re just doing our little thing.’ And then, I shouldn’t say little thing anymore, because I’m sure they’re doing all right!
Kyle: Yeah.
Nick: And for you, for the landscape for anybody to be able to do anything now, we live in a world where even if you want to kind of publicly cuss something down, you have to be so much more careful now, which is kind of connected to that thing of the net gain of the corporations being involved. It’s like: well if somebody’s only not criticizing something because they’re scared of how that’s going to make them look, they’re still not publicly criticising it, so there still is a positive, even if their motives aren’t pure, the outcome is still good. So yeah, you can put out your book and like people on a forum or whatever can shit talk it…
Kyle: Right.
Nick: Think of how many people in the past would have not even read your book and then listen to Vent City and then shit-talked your book on the basis of what they thought it probably was, having not read it. And I think that probably happens a bit less now because people don’t want to be seen to be doing that, I don’t know…
Kyle: That’s interesting yeah. I mean the Frog example is a great one right, I mean Frog is the sort of, the biggest slow mind change I’ve had in the last, you know, year of skateboarding. It was sort of like, ‘all right, fine, I’m on board, go ahead.’ Like again, not for me, like you said, I won’t ever rock a Frog hat or board. But I am fully on board for what they are doing and part of that is just like proving that you’re doing it. Like this Noah video that came out of whatever that was, that New York fashion brand Noah, they seem to now be totally disassociated with skateboarding. It seemed to be a one off deal.
And you know I think skateboarding has a real sort of critical eye for anyone who’s not actually going to keep doing it, right? And I think there is just sort of this threshold, where, if you are in skateboarding long enough you sort of prove your bona fides and you show like, ‘you might not be into what I’m doing, but I have every right to be here doing it.’ And I think that’s kind of one of the beauties of skateboarding, it’s that you do sort of earn your way in and there’s a real fine line here between gatekeeping and sort of proving oneself, but I do think that skateboarding requires… You know if you’re going to be here, if you’re going to be this weird MS Paintbrand, sort of this jokey brand called Frog like, yeah whatever I can roll my eyes at it, but if you’re doing that two years later or whatever, and your team has grown and you’re putting out videos and…
Will: Yeah you’re putting out amazing videos…
Kyle: Yeah, so what in the world can I possibly say? It doesn’t matter if you line up with my taste. It doesn’t matter if the
new Bronze video
is by the same company that when they first came out I was like: ‘oh fuck it, another New York company, great! (said sarcastically)’ But like by this video, video five or whatever, it’s like: great, let’s go! Let’s see it; I want it! I hunger for it because, I know that if you’re in skateboarding long enough, you will learn from it, you will adapt from it, your work will reflect that time with it. And again, I say all this because I would hope that, at the very least, anyone can think whatever they want about my book, either by reading it or not, reading it… What I feel very, very confident in is that in my time with skateboarding I have learned from it, and that is what this book is, more than anything. It’s: here has what skateboarding has made of me over 30 some years, and so that, you can’t disagree with that.
Will: Yeah.
Kyle: You know, you can think I’m taking it too seriously, or you can think like, ‘fuck this guy he thinks he knows everything’ and so on. But what you can’t disagree with is the fact that this has been a genuine and real part of what has made me into a writer and here is the work that has come out of it. Here’s the thing skateboarding actually has made through me.
Nick: Can’t disagree with that, thanks Kyle.
Pick up The Most Fun Thing at your local bookstore or online at
ThePalomino.com
.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 4, 2017
The Others
Illustration by James Jarvis
Nine year-old Sven just wanted to fit in like all the rest of his schoolmates. So when the coolest kids in his class got Yo-yos Sven desperately wanted one as well. He begged and pleaded with his parents until they finally relented. On the last day of school before the summer break Sven’s mother dropped him off at school and handed him a small wrapped present. ‘Don’t lose it or get it taken away,’ she said. Sven unwrapped the present to find a new shiny orange Yo-yo. Sven was ecstatic! He showed all his friends at school and he finally felt like he was fitting in.
All summer Sven played and practiced with his Yo-yo. He got quite good at it too learning loads of tricks. The Yo-yo was great because he could do it almost anywhere, but more importantly, he could do it all by himself – he didn’t need a team or other people to participate.
Summer was drawing to an end and Sven was excited about the new school year ahead. ‘Wait until the others see my Yo-yo tricks. I’m really going to impress them!’ he thought. The first day back at school finally came and after the first few hellos Sven broke out his Yo-yo. He started doing his Yo-yo tricks and then suddenly: ‘Ha ha! Yo-yoing sucks dude!’ The kids in school started teasing him. ‘Yo-yoing is so not cool. No one does that anymore man, we’re into football now.’
But Sven didn’t want to play football; he hated football! Sven decided he just preferred playing with his Yo-yo. Sven stuck with it and he became quite famous in the underground, but tightly knit Yo-yo community. He was even
flown to the States by a Yo-yo company to do a demo
. The haters continued to hate, but Sven took it all in stride. Sven had to do other jobs to make ends meet, but that didn’t bother him. He still had time to do what he loved: Yo-yoing.
Sven’s story is similar to those that started skateboarding before the mid-nineties. Back then skateboarding was ‘not cool’. There was no Street League, no X-Games, hardly any corporate shoe sponsors and no big money energy drink companies, but still, there were millions of skateboarders that skated for the love of it. Skateboarding was underground and people didn’t understand it, but that was just fine with us. There wasn’t that much money in it either back then. Fast forward to today and skateboarding has been thoroughly inserted into the mainstream. But somewhere along the way in skateboarding’s rise to popularity certain aspects of skateboarding trailed off. Not all types of skateboarding were invited to the big party. The Olympics in 2020 will have street and bowl events, but what about the other kinds of skateboarding? What about
the others
? We tracked down some of ‘the others’ to find out about their style of skateboarding and why they keep doing it with little recognition, slim to nil coverage and little to no money. They are the new Svens. Perhaps this will bring a better understanding of freestyling, longboarding, slalom and vert skating to the mainstream skateboard world. People often make fun of what they don’t understand, but lest we forget, we used to be Svens too.
-Will Harmon
Denham Hill, truckstand (or 50-50 in freestyle lingo), Leeds, UK. Ph. Reece Leung
The Freestyler
Denham Hill – 25, Leeds, UK
Will Harmon: How did you discover skateboarding and what was your first skateboard?
Denham Hill: I discovered skateboarding in the early noughties, all my friends started doing it, and it was all big trousers, loud music and all the horrible fashion styles. My first deck was an old Toy Machine demon monster. Then I just took to it and all my mates quit, but I just kept progressing and progressing.
At what point did you decide your focus would be freestyle skateboarding and how did you get into that exactly?
So around the time I started skating Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater was a big thing, but I was always more into hardcore and eighties skateboarding. I was all about bonelesses and I used to ride a lot of pool and bowl. And from that I researched into older types of skateboarding and things that weren’t quite the trend anymore. That’s when I came across freestyle and stumbled upon clips of (Rodney) Mullen on Tony Hawk’s. I liked the different approach and from there I was keen to explore it. So then I kind of sat on YouTube and typed as many links as I could. I started seeing
Pierre Andre
,
Ray Meyer
,
Don Brown
and all the other freestylers of that time. And I just thought it’s constant movement, constant chances to develop tricks and constant ways to create new combos and lines and that’s just what got me into it – just the creativity I suppose.
And then from there did you get a special freestyle board? How did you source that?
Well I started off with standard street popsicle boards, and I’d get a lot as hand-me-downs when I first started out, so I’d try to kind of sand them down or try and plane them into a better shape. But then I got in touch with Yoyo Schultz over in Germany, a freestyler of old, and he sold boards from a company called
Decomposed
so I started riding those. They were all freestyle decks and freestyle wheels and trucks, because of course you need narrower trucks as well. And after a couple of years
Tony Gale
, who is another freestyler in the UK and a mate, got in touch with me and he said that Moonshine, who are a vert company, they were starting to make freestyle boards and wanted to put together a team. So I got sponsored by Moonshine, and I now get all my freestyle gear through those guys.
Can you tell us a bit about the freestyle community? Does it have its own isolated culture?
Isolated kind of… It’s almost a separate tangent. The way I’ve always seen it, if you are on four wheels and on a plank, then everyone should make the effort to support each other. Since the early nineties freestyle has gone really underground. The community around it now is super-tight. There’s never any beef and everyone’s just a decent human being. It’s a great little community, but I think some freestylers alienate themselves further by showing disrespect for street skateboarding by claiming ‘it’s all the same’ and all this. But in my opinion we’re all on boards and we should be able to bounce ideas off each other. Being a freestyler you do get the piss taken out of you a little bit by street skaters. But that’s the same with everything: it’s a different approach and sometimes people don’t get that. Freestyle has probably gotten more respect now than it has done previously particularly with Instagram and social media platforms.
So do you pay attention to what goes on in the rest of skateboarding?
The whole reason I skate is because I absolutely love skateboarding and I love it in every form it comes in. Freestyle is my passion, but I do like to catch up on what else is going on in the skateboard world because I work for a skateboard coaching company. I do like to keep on top of everything that’s going on purely because it’s a mutual respect thing as well.
Who are some of your favourite skateboarders?
Pierre Andre, Don Brown, Terry Synott and Keith Renna are my big freestyle influences. I suppose my favourite current freestyler is Tony Gale from the UK, also Mike Osterman. In terms of modern or public eye skateboarding, Ben Raybourn I’m a big fan of. Also (Rodney) Mullen and Daewon Song.
Can you make a living off freestyle skateboarding?
One of the most frustrating things for freestylers is you could be the best pro freestyler in the world and you’ve got about the same status as a professional Yo-yoer. You see all the guys in Street League and whatever and of course they’re able to make good money off sponsorships just for doing what they love doing. And that’s mainly because of that scene of skateboarding now, that common facet, which most people relate to – whereas with freestyling, you can’t really make money off it, even if you’re a top pro. The only person that has these days is
Kilian Martin
, who rides for Powell. I think the only way of doing it these days is combining freestyle with street.
And what do you think about Rodney Mullen making that
crossover
decades ago?
I think at that time I respected his decision to do that, because you do have to move on and progress with things. However I think, and I’m not trying to call anyone out on this, but one thing that I think a lot of the freestyle community are frustrated with is that Mullen made the crossover into more street skating and then didn’t really do anything to support freestyle for the subsequent twenty years. So I think a lot of people are kind of bitter about that. I don’t mind, people can skate how they want it doesn’t bother me, but it would be nice to get the same recognition and the same validity as any other skateboarder. Just ‘cause you skate freestyle, you shouldn’t be cast out like a social leper! (Laughs)
Do you wish freestyling would be featured more in the big mainstream magazines?
I think it would help out. Some of these guys are so talented, creative and miles ahead of anyone else in the scene that they deserve some press and recognition. It would be nice to see freestyle skateboarding written about a little more… On the flipside, the freestyle community is pretty tight. Everyone’s quite happy with the way it is, but I think people would prefer the opportunity to get out there a little more.
How many freestylers are out there?
The problem you have with freestyle is that every freestyler thinks that they’re the only one. There’s just not many around, but in the UK we’ve got a pretty good scene.
Do you guys have events where you get to see each other?
Yeah we do meet-ups and we have jams every now and then also we do
demos at NASS festival
every year. And then we go on road trips to comps in Europe and stuff. There’s maybe like nine or ten really common faces here in the UK, but for every one of those there’s probably another two or three that are kind of hidden away thinking that there’s no one else that does it so they won’t come forward. It’s still very underground.
What about the rest of the world’s freestyle scene? You can probably get glimpses now via social media no? Is there anyone who is really pushing it out there?
Yeah there’s a fella out there in Romania called
Marius Constantin
who needs to be far more recognised than he is. He’s basically built an entire freestyle community in his country. He’s like a massive celebrity over there and no one else seems to have really heard of him. He pours everything into trying to get the kids out there to skate; he does fantastic work. So you see a lot of guys coming up in Romania at the moment. Guys in Japan have always had a pretty solid scene and in the US as well. In the US they do competitions a little differently over there, but they’ve got some really talented skaters.
So what’s the biggest misconception about a freestyle skateboarder?
There’s so many of them! (Laughs) Shin pads, headbands and really, really short shorts is a pretty common misconception. Also that we’re a bunch of anime-loving nerds who still live with our mums when we are like forty years old. Those are probably the biggest two, but at the end of the day most of us just completely love what we do and we just want to keep progressing and hopefully try and forge some kind of career out of it – whether that’s giving back to the community through coaching or through the merit of being a decent skateboarder.
Carlos Paixão (in the lead), São Paulo, Brazil. Ph. Luciano Lima Jr.
The Longboarder
Carlos Paixão – 28, Maringá, Brazil
Arthur Derrien: How did you discover skateboarding and at what stage did you decide to focus on longboarding?
Carlos Paixão: The first time I stepped on a skateboard I was nine, but I stopped soon after that when I broke my arm. Then I didn’t really get back into it until I turned eighteen and discovered longboarding. Straight-away I loved being able to go super fast and do mad slides and stuff.
So there hasn’t been a point in your life when you’ve focused on ‘traditional’ skateboarding?
Not really no. I’ve always done it a little bit but it’s never done the same thing for me as longboarding. I mean I can kickflip and stuff but I think I just wasn’t made for street skating. I’m really tall, quite heavy and I have really bad knees (I tore both my ligaments). All this makes it hard for me.
And right now you’re currently considered the fastest skateboarder in the world?
Yes, in a competition in Canada I recently became the fastest rider in the world.
How fast is that?
137km/h. I’d like to add that there’s a guy in the United States who claims to be the fastest. He made a video where he’s supposed to be going 143km/h but it’s not in the context of a competition. I think he was trying to send his data for the Guinness Book of records; we’ll see what they say…
How did this passion progress into you going to international competitions and stuff?
When I first started going to longboard competitions I was never super focused. Like I didn’t really train or watch my diet or anything like that. I’d just be taking it easy, drinking, smoking… But then right after I finished University I placed fifth in one of the top races and thought to myself maybe I’ve got the right physique for this or something. So I decided to give it a proper shot and quit my job to just skate. I did a year of living off the money I’d saved up and focused everything on competitions. I was living off the money I’d make from the competitions, selling some product… It was tough; there was no partying or anything. In fact it was quite a sad year now that I think about it.
But it ended up paying off. You live from your passion now right? Where exactly does the money you earn come from? Sponsors? Winning competitions?
Well I receive a little salary from each brand and I get money from my government.
How does that work?
In Brazil if you’re in the top three of any international / global ranking then the following year the government will support you by giving you 500 dollars a month for a year.
These competitions also have prize money right?
Yeah some of them do but these days it’s never very much. Right now is probably the weakest the industry has ever been… We’ve really reached the bottom, but at least the only way to go is up!
Damn.
It makes me really sad… These days all companies care about is riders that don’t wear protections and film edits with them from cars that are driven right behind them, it’s super dangerous…
In traditional skateboarding ‘style’ is one of the things people care about the most. Is it the same in longboarding?
Yeah everyone has their own style and it is something we look at. I’d say my style is an athlete’s style I guess. I can push harder than anyone, tuck faster and I’m always clean. Brazilian style you know?
Like it’s often generalised about Brazilian street skating?
Kind of yeah. There are three of us that are always at the top at the moment, we call ourselves the Brazilian storm.
So in your eyes what’s a good style in longboarding?
I’m a racer. For me the best style is the one that wins – the fastest style. It’s funny sometimes I feel like I’m an animal that being made to race on a track, I really give it everything I’ve got.
Can you tell us a little bit about the culture there is around longboarding? Are there many magazines, videos, etc.?
Magazines that only focus on longboarding? We don’t have many, no… Although in Brazil we have a cruiser magazine that’s probably the number one source for downhill skateboarding in South America right now. But that’s about it. A lot of the time when I tell people outside of Brazil that I’m the world champion of downhill skateboarding they’re a bit like ‘downhill what?!’
So is Brazil the place where this kind of skateboarding is the most popular?
Yeah I think it is.
Do you pay attention to what goes on in the ‘traditional’ skateboarding world?
Yeah a bit… I watch Street League. But I’m more into bowl and stuff, like I love watching Pedro Barros. I think I prefer that to street skating just because you can really feel the speed. In fact, I’m actually going to skate a bowl myself tomorrow.
Really? Do you go in there with the longboard or do you have a normal board for that?
No I use a normal one. It feels a bit small for my feet but I can use it.
In a lot of places, like in England for instance, being a longboarder is seen as ‘uncool’ by a lot of traditional skaters. Is that something you’ve ever felt?
It’s because they don’t have real hills in England. If you see a longboarder there of course you’re going to think the shit he’s doing is super boring. Like ‘this guy thinks he’s going fast?’ Where I live there are huge hills everywhere and being a longboarder is like being the pilot of a race car or something. When people ask us what we’re doing with all this equipment and we explain that we’re going over 100 km/h down hills they’re shocked. Sometimes they even ask to follow us in their cars and realise they can’t keep up. It’s very different.
The adrenalin rush I get from this kind of skateboarding is so much more intense than when I ride street. If I can’t go down a hill, it just gets boring…
Do you have a pro board?
Yeah it just came out, it’s called the black mamba. It’s a good name because if you’re in a race with me you don’t want to get bit.
Do you ever wish downhill longboarding wasn’t so underground? That the industry was bigger, that more people would do it, buy more boards…
I just wish it could get into the Olympics. If street skating and bowl skating is getting in there I can’t see why this couldn’t. It’s so easy to enjoy and the rules are really clear: you’re not allowed to touch each other on the way down and it’s the first one that gets past the finish line that wins.
I guess the main difference with bowl skating / street skating is that you can’t just put us in a stadium, you need a 4000-foot mountain.
We often hear people say that street skating shouldn’t be in the Olympics because it can’t be reduced to a bunch of obstacles in a skatepark/stadium. It’s funny that your kind of skateboarding REALLY can’t fit into that format. What’s the biggest hill you’ve bombed?
I’ve just come back from a 16km race, which was probably the longest race I’ve done. That’s a long time without stopping when you’re going that fast…
What happens when you get to the bottom? Really long powerslides?
What’s a powerslide?
You know when you try to brake by turning ninety degrees to slow yourself down with the friction of the wheels.
What you mean a drift? Yeah we just drift when we get to the bottom. We use our hands and slide until we slow down.
Olivier Noël, Paris, France. Ph. Thibault Le Nours
The Slalom Skateboarder
Olivier Noël – 52, Paris, France
Thibault Le Nours: Can you tell us how long you’ve been skateboarding?
Olivier Noël: I got my first set-up in the seventies for Christmas. It was a Rollet…
How did you discover slalom skateboarding?
I’ve been slaloming since 2007, when I joined an association called
RIDERZ
. I was getting old and I could feel that skating transition and parks was getting too hard for me… Slalom skateboarding felt more accessible, less dangerous.
Do you follow what goes on in current skateboarding at all?
I regularly watch videos… I’m also a collector; I’ve got over 170 boards dating from the seventies until now!
Who are your favourite skaters?
I don’t have any single favourite skaters. I never have… I do have favourite teams though. I always loved the Alva team and the Dogtown team.
Is style as important in slaloming as it is in traditional skating?
No. There are a lot of dudes that don’t have great styles but are able to go really, really fast. That’s what counts. A great style is always a treat for the eyes but at the end of the day it’s all about the stopwatch.
Are there still slalom pros?
There have been slalom pros since the seventies and yes, there are still some to this day.
How many people do you reckon slalom in Europe?
I’d say about 350 in Europe and 700 in the world? We’re probably between eighty and ninety in France. A few French dudes are killing it actually! Like
Vincent Tanguy
, he came second at the Giant Slalom world championships this summer and turned pro.
What exactly do you mean by turning pro? Can they make a living from slaloming?
Not really no… Even the ones with pro-models all have regular jobs on the side. They just get free gear from their sponsors and a bit of budget to go to comps.
Are you happy that this subcategory of skateboarding is relatively niche at the moment or do you wish it was more developed and received more media attention?
I’d like it if slaloming got a bit more attention to be honest… It all revolves around competing but we still manage to keep it really friendly and have a great time! Plus it’s always an amazing feeling when you do a good time because you know that your results will be passed on to the international federation of slaloming who then update the rankings on the site. Regularly checking each other’s rankings is super fun. The only downside is how expensive the gear is. Like a complete is between 350 / 400 euros because the precision trucks we used are finished by hand and can cost up to 250 euros. It’s probably also because the front truck and the back truck aren’t the same…
To you what’s one of the main misconceptions people have about skateboarders?
That skaters are rebels! Those days are long gone! Some skaters even think they’re rebels themselves but they get their board, their trips and everything paid for by shops or big companies. In the eighties it was not the same I can tell you that! Skaters used to be alcoholics, drug addicts, etc. You don’t see those personalities in the magazines anymore; they’re all squeaky clean.
That’s probably linked to the influence their sponsors have on the media more than anything don’t you think? Because I know a lot of skaters that could fit into what you described above…
Nah it’s changed, now they’re all wearing super tight jeans and spend most of their time taking selfies and showing off their brand new Vans. Skateboarding’s lost its rebelliousness. Half the kids in Paris just walk around with skateboards under their arms because it’s trendy again here…
Rich Lopez, backside air, San Diego, USA. Ph. Dan Sparagna
The Vert Skater
Rich Lopez – 47, San Diego, USA
Will Harmon: How did you discover skateboarding and what was your first board?
Rich Lopez: I discovered skateboarding at fourteen with my twin brother
Sanford
. Our older brother came home with a skateboard so we wanted one. My first board was a Sims Lonnie Toft board, but I didn’t really take to it at first. It wasn’t until 1986 and seeing the Bones Brigade videos that I really got hooked. We built our own quarterpipes and learned to skate that way and then finally a few vert ramps popped up where we could get to within an hour or two’s drive. At Cheap Skates in Pennsylvania is where we met Sean Miller, Tom Boyle, Barker Barrett and Bam Margera. That really opened up skateboarding for us and we realised it wasn’t just us that were doing it.
So was it fairly early on that you decided vert skating would be your main focus?
Yeah it was always vert. I’m not really good at street so I’m not drawn to it. I do like watching Street League, even over pool skating, which I don’t enjoy doing or watching. I’d rather watch street skating, but I really suck at it.
Who are some of your favourite skateboarders and why?
One of the first guys I ever watched on a vert ramp was Jay Henry; he stood out. Watching him I realised that’s what I really wanted to do, even if it takes my whole life of struggling, I thought ‘I wanna do what that guy’s doing!’ And of course from the videos there’s Christian Hosoi, Steve Caballero, Tony Hawk, Grosso and all those guys. Then there was Jeff Jones from the East Coast.
What’s more important to you in vert skating: style (like Christian Hosoi) or technical ability (like Tony Hawk)?
I personally like watching the style and amplitude guys and that’s what I try to do. I like to pick up as much speed as possible and go as high as I can. Foot down to the pedal and just go and see what happens!
Vert skating isn’t covered that often in mainstream skate magazines. Do you guys have your own magazines or is there a separate forum where people go to talk about vert skating?
There’s all kind of groups on Facebook and that’s the main way I stay connected. Magazines are few and far between and hard to find. Facebook and Instagram I’d say are the main ways to stay connected.
Is there a main dude at the moment? Like some vert skater everyone is talking about?
Not really. Every now and then someone pops up out of nowhere… For example this kid
Clay Kreiner
freaked everyone out at the last Vert Attack as he was killing it with no pads. He came onto the scene hot.
Back in the day most skate teams always had a vert guy, but maybe not so much anymore. Are there special skate teams now that hook up a lot of vert skaters?
There are a handful of teams that do. I think
Moonshine
and
Green Issue
are really standing out because they give vert skaters pro models. I thought it would be cool to do a video like ‘Moonshine versus Green Issue’. They are the two really strong vert teams.
Who are your sponsors now Rich?
I hope I can get all of them in there… OK I skate for
Moonshine Skateboards
, Independent Trucks, Bones Wheels, Randoms Hardware… I just recently started riding Steve Steadham’s shoes… Um, 187 pads and no clothing sponsor or anything.
Can you solely make a living on being a vert skater?
Yeah it’s possible, but it’s weird. It depends… Some guys do and some guys are on the other side of the fence thinking: ‘Why am I not making tons of money or any money at all?’ Contests definitely have a lot to do with it and for the past number of years the energy drink companies have been interested and are throwing money at it. Other companies see that and they latch on to that. I don’t want to call it luck, because it’s not, it’s a lot of hard work, but there is luck involved. It’s kinda like being a real good guitar player and if you don’t go to the right spots you might be just stuck in your basement the whole time. It’s where you go, who you know and all of that, which really does help.
Do you think there are a lot of underground vert skaters?
There are, but I don’t think too many. It would be cool if everyone could somehow be involved in a way where you don’t need a side job or thirteen roommates. Realistically there’s a handful of guys that are super comfortable and then there are guys who skate their asses off that gotta go an do another job, but that’s how that works.
How about yourself, do you make enough money off skating or do you have a side job as well?
For me it comes and goes in waves. For a moment I was super comfortable; my plans for when I was done with skating were to kick my feet up and smoke cigars and just chill. Then the money stopped coming in and I spent all my money I had in savings and I was like: ‘Holy cow!’ As a hobby, which helped spend a lot of my skateboard money, I got into RC helicopters. That helped burn a hole in my skateboard money, but then I actually got fairly good at it and I was able to do demos and stuff like that. So I was able to get an RC helicopter sponsor who helps me out with all the parts and stuff. There are demos, kind of like skateboarding, called
‘fun fly’ events
and I get paid to do those as well.
That’s sick! Double sponsored!
Yeah the skateboarding demos are rare for me these days. I rarely get that phone call these days; it’s all the younger guys that do it now. I did that for eight or nine years straight, so I wasn’t that upset to accept that the younger guys were coming through. That’s real life right there.
Yeah that’s the reality.
The other thing I’m stoked about is that I feel like, when I pad up and skate, I still feel like I’m nineteen or twenty years old. I’ve never felt like ‘OK I’m almost fifty years old, no more 540s…’ or something like that. I feel the opposite: ‘I’m almost fifty, time to learn a new 540!’ I’m almost fifty years old so maybe I’m thinking I could have a second wind like maybe some kind of, I don’t know some kind of Viagara drug where it’s like: ‘hey this guy’s almost fifty, maybe we should hook him up!’
Do you wish vert skating would be featured more in the mainstream skateboarding magazines?
Yeah I think they should. I thought about ‘hey why don’t I just do my own magazine… It can’t be that hard,’ and just do one all vert. I think someone should do it; I would definitely buy it. Just every page a full-page picture of just vert; not even half pages, just straight up full pages because it’s so fun to look at.
OK Sam Beckett told me this story, and he said one time you guys went to a vert ramp and you said it was too small, it was an eleven-foot, and you refused to skate it. Sam said you love a thirteen-foot vert ramp. Is this story true?
Yep. It trips me out that guys like him (Sam Beckett) are good on any ramp and are able to adapt. I think to myself ‘how do they do it?’ But I think the way that I do airs I would seriously get hurt. I don’t know; it’s weird.
What’s the biggest misconception about vert skaters? You all push mongo?
Ha. There is one for sure… I bet everyone assumes that if you ride vert or even skateboard then you listen to Slayer and Metallica. I think Slayer and Metallica are a bit too old and soft. Some of my friends listen to really mellow stuff. When I hear it I’m like: ‘how do you… Even I thought you guys listen to Slayer and Metallica!’ (Laughs)

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 7, 2022
Location, location, location?
It’s funny the way things work out. When I wrote the article below for
Free
, Chris Jones was slightly concerned that somebody else would do a ‘better’ trick into a Parisian bank that he’d liberated on a drunken hacksaw mission. When I say ‘concerned’ that’s pushing it a bit. He was concerned in the same way that you might be concerned about the person in front of you buying the last really cold beer from the shop. In fact, Chris’ concern such as it was, was in all honesty manipulated by yours truly to create a vehicle to reach out and touch skateboarding’s current zeitgeist.
Then, a month after the article dropped in
Free
,
Louie Lopez’s
Thrasher
cover
came out, which a) rendered Chris’ worries about someone kickflipping into the bank he’d ollied into completely obsolete and b), made the article look like a diss to anyone who read it after seeing Louie kill off the spot that had sparked the piece in the first place. So, in my exalted capacity as the person who humbly attempted to nestle up against skateboarding’s 2022 milieu and question the legitimacy of the rules of old, I categorically deny any suggestion that it’s intended to disparage either Louie or
Thrasher
. It isn’t.
With that said though, don’t bother going back to that spot.
2022 might well be all about inclusion and letting every skater of every ability level have a fair crack of the whip but Louie has killed that spot off, forever.
If I were Chris, I’d go back and weld the fence into place again now.
To quote Bill Weiss, ‘Don’t come back here, the bank is definitely closed. It’s over with.’
-Ben Powell
Ph. Sam Ashley
Location, location, location?
Words by Ben Powell
The genesis of what you’re about to read came from a conversation between a professional skateboarder, (as in a person who receives financial remuneration for documenting their performance of skateboard tricks) and a person who takes photographs of street spots and uploads them to a Social Media platform for free.
Any casual reader will most probably be formulating a position on this one before reading any further, based almost entirely on their knee-jerk reaction to one, or both, of the compound nouns used in the first sentence.
As the professional skater in question here was none other than Welsh Nike representative, Chris ‘the bank manager’ Jones, it seems prudent to let him fill in the blank spots on this one before we venture further into this confusing ideological minefield.
‘There’s a bank at this existing spot in Paris, which nobody has skated so far due to a railing that runs across the bottom of it. I had it in my head that if I cut the bottom bar of the railing out, it would be possible to do a trick into the bank and then duck under the modified rail and ride away…’
At this stage, it’s probably worth pointing something out that the more astute consumers of skateboard media amongst you will already be aware of. Namely, that Mr Jones has already produced a number of notable video clips that involve ducking under fences on the ride away, (for the geeks that’s 03:12 in his
Vase
section
and 02:35 in his
365 Days on Planet Earth
part). This is worthy of a mention to contextualise his Parisian activities within the wider mindset that clearly drives his approach to producing content as a sponsored skateboarder.
Back to Chris, ‘I tried to cut the rail off that same day under cover of darkness but my saw broke before I’d made any progress. A month later I found myself back in Paris and decided to try again. This time I bought a variety of different hacksaws to ensure I’d get through it and then foolishly waited until after 3am and a stomach full of booze to attempt to liberate the spot. As I was so drunk, all my previous concerns about being caught evaporated and I managed to cut through one part of the bar and then bend the rail so it became possible to ride underneath it. It most definitely wasn’t the clinical spot-modification operation that I’d envisaged but, it got the job done, and I promptly returned to the hotel and fell asleep.
When I returned the next morning with a stinking hangover to attempt the trick that had led to the above, I realised just how sketchy the whole thing was. Hangovers and precision skating aren’t the happiest bedfellows and that, combined with the speed at which I was going to be ducking under the very low and only half-removed bar, made this one terrifying and potentially life-threatening. In fact, it’s definitely one of the most dangerous things I’ve ever done.’
So far, so what, right? Well, this is where the dichotomy laid out in the opener comes in. Subsequently, a Parisian skate spot Instagram account posted the object that Chris had modified before the trick he’d filmed had been used, much to his annoyance.
‘It was frustrating as the spot has been there for ages but no one had ever thought of cutting the bar away to make it usable. After putting the work in, it was annoying for the spot to get blown out like that for someone to go skate it and potentially release footage before my clip had even come out, despite me being the one who took the risk to make it skateable and came up with the idea.
I feel like there’s an etiquette that should be held onto in skating: if someone finds a spot, or more so “makes a spot”, then it’s a mark of respect to wait for their footage or photo to come out before rinsing it. Plus, as I’ve never really been a person who’s able to shut down a popular spot with my technical ability, I’ve leaned more towards the spot finding aspect of skate culture. It’s also the thing that I get the most excited about when watching videos myself. To me, finding spots is just as important as doing tricks.’
Following this initial conversation, it transpired that Chris had contacted said Instagram account and asked, in his ever-polite way, whether they’d mind removing the spot so as to protect the value of the inaugural trick filmed there and they had in turn acquiesced with his request. With such a wholesome outcome, it feels almost churlish to upend the butcher’s bucket and go raking through the entrails looking for further meanings but, if that doesn’t happen, then you’re not going to be reading much more.
Magnus Bordewick, switch frontside wallride, Oslo. Ph. Lars Gartå
If you reacted to the very first sentence of this text then chances are that you felt some affinity towards the concept of ‘professional skateboarder’ or you had a reaction to the mention of ‘Social Media’ and its creeping monopoly on every single subculture on the planet. There’s nothing surprising about that, particularly not in skate culture where the de facto response to any mention of Social Media is to pretend like it represents the dissolution of cultural integrity and destruction of all things good, before immediately posting your outrage on Instagram. Equally, as a skateboarder, you’d be forgiven for taking an instinctively sympathetic position towards Chris’ annoyance at his trick being potentially ‘blown out’ because someone else decided to reveal the location of the spot.
Upon further consideration however, this situation lays bare a tension that sits at the very heart of skateboarding-as-a-thing, and throws up as many questions as it does answers. Yes, in this instance, a perfect harmony between the professional and the hobbyist was achieved, leaving nobody slighted and the value of Chris Jones’ cultural currency unsullied by the intrepid endeavours of Instagram inspired glory hunters. But, in a wider sense, is it possible to determine who, if anyone, was in the right here?
Can post-Olympics, post-Instagram, post-Phelps skateboarding still maintain the purist allegiance to the etiquette and rules of old?
Or to put it another way, in a skate universe that now happily champions inclusivity over exclusivity, is the notion of cultural gatekeeping still relevant? And, if it’s not, is it still cool to want to keep skate spots secret?
This is where the conversation with Chris led, with the lid of Pandora’s box removed and emphatically flung from the highest building in the vicinity.
As such, it seemed prudent to take this question and farm it out to as many different skateboarders, representing as many different experiences as possible; from the unpaid compilers of spot locations, through to the ranks of The Industry and those contractually-obliged to create content to please sponsors and fans alike either through doing tricks, or by documenting them.
The responses were quite surprising, but you can discover that yourselves…
Where better to start than with 2021’s SOTY? In response to a question about how the ‘locals only’ ethos that skating inherited from surfing interacts with the expectations of a pro skater, Mark (Suciu) makes an important point:
‘You have to respect local scenes and their spots. That can sound territorial, but spots aren’t just objects, they’re also relationships. Relationships between skaters and security guards – imagine a spot where security has reached a deal with skaters, allowing them to skate as long as it’s after business hours – or in the case of spots that have been fixed up or DIYs, it’s a relationship between the builder and what they’ve built. It’s best to talk to people who know about these relationships, (particularly if you’re there as a visitor), and to figure out how you can fit in with respect. If you’re respectful, people will get on your side, and if you end up getting a good trick at a spot they can share in the stoke.’
Kevin Baekkel, backside 50-50, Oslo. Ph. Alex Holm
With Suciu bridging the gap between the contemporary skate universe and that of the much celebrated but equally much misunderstood ‘90s street scene, it’s interesting to place his thoughts against those people deeply involved in early 1990s skateboarding. Historically, it was an interesting period, with a movement away from filming exclusively at famous spots like Embarcadero, Lockwood or Venice Beach that had dominated skate videos in the early ‘90s, and towards a more spot-searching approach that saw influential pros scouring cities for new, previously unskated architecture from the mid ‘90s onwards.
As veteran East Coast filmmaker and industry head Josh Stewart explains:
‘It’s probably a very outdated mode of thought these days but I can still see the rationale for not sharing spots with other people. I can think of many spots that were so special, that it would’ve been more powerful and had more staying power in a cultural sense if the original skaters who found and christened those spots had been the only people to film/shoot there. It’s virtually impossible for that to occur these days, but I think if a skater finds a spot through their own diligence and creativity, then it’s justifiable for them to keep it a secret.
Ricky Oyola was very instrumental in instilling this mentality into a lot of East Coast skaters in the ‘90s. Just a reverence for the art of finding skate spots and the respect to each skater for the work or imagination they put into their own spots. It’s certainly tough nowadays though with how much content everyone has to put out constantly. It makes it far more challenging to respect those rules when skaters are having to film sometimes 2-3 parts in a year. But I really respect it when it’s obvious that someone has put in the work to find their own spots in a video part.’
Whilst nearly everyone contacted in the process of putting this piece together agreed on the absolute centrality of seeking out new spots for the culture, not everyone agreed with Stewart’s self-confessed traditionalist outlook.
To Antihero’s Chris Pfanner, the notion of deliberately keeping spots secret is risible: ‘it’s completely unnecessary. Why hide the spot from others? Are you scared that someone else is gonna one-up you? If that’s how seriously you see skateboarding, then you should probably start playing soccer and give that board to someone that’s happy with it.’
The concern of being one-upped is subtly different from Stewart’s point and relates more to the notion of professionalised skateboarding being a quest to do better or more difficult tricks (or NBDs) at spots which have become crucibles for progression. But then again, in the grand scheme of things, on the kind of spots where ABD/NBD battles were most prevalent, how much progression is there between 50-50ing a massive rail and smithing it? Obviously one trick is harder than the other but aesthetically or philosophically speaking, is there much difference? We’re venturing onto issues related to spot specificity and the reality that certain skaters gravitate towards very particular types of spots here, so it seems appropriate to tag in Norway’s Kevin Baekkel.
Kevin’s approach to spots tends towards the suicidal, as anyone who saw his recent
Free
and
Thrasher
interviews or watched his
Creature
Gangreen
section will be fully aware of. This guy is absolutely not out searching for niche backstreet cellar doors; with Baekkel the goal is to find the longest, the biggest and the most death defying and as a result, his attitude towards spot sharing reflects this.
‘The spots I’m looking for need a different technique,’ he explains. ‘I’ll spend time driving through areas with steep hills as they’re more likely to throw up big rails. The other thing I do is hit up snowboarders, BMXers and rollerbladers on the hunt for rails that I’ve seen on their Instagrams or in their videos. Usually they’re always down to share because it’s not as if I’m going to blow their spots out because nobody else will want to skate them anyway. For me, I’m always down to share spots I find with anyone who asks, because so far everyone has been down to share with me. It works best this way.’
Helena Long, frontside 50-50, Athens. Ph. DVL
Baekkel’s not the only person whose specific approach to skateboarding involves seeking out unseen spots or objects that don’t fit into a regular paradigm. Jim Craven has made a career producing
skate films
that explore terrain completely removed from the vast majority of things touched on so far. Craven’s aesthetic is reliant on spot searching but not as we generally conceive of it in so far as you’re not going to stumble across drainage ditches, spillways, full pipes and seafront flood defences by skating an extra few miles through the city or looking around the back of supermarkets. Despite this, his position on the cultural significance of finding spots is just as fervent:
‘Spot finding is everything. I honestly don’t know if I’d still be skating today if it wasn’t for the amount of satisfaction I get from finding, and then skating/shooting/filming at a spot that is new to me and others. It’s also what I’m most inspired by when I watch videos too. Obviously, there will always be space in skateboarding for endless amounts of Kalis at Love, Worrest at Pulaski or Hjalte at Jarmers, but if that was what everyone was doing all of the time, I definitely would have gotten into mountain biking or kiteboarding or some other shit by now, because that sense of adventure is really important.’
The flipside to that ‘sense of adventure’ so crucial to Craven is a degree of unwillingness to give up hard-earned spot locations but not for the reasons you might expect.
‘I think the most important thing about a “spot” is the first time you see it in a photo or a video. That first exposure kind of holds within it all of this new information for your brain to take in around the skating, and you don’t know what’s coming next. I think that subconsciously, that’s much more exciting to see than a line at a spot you’ve seen hundreds of times. I think that new and interesting spots are definitely a huge part of holding people’s interest in a skate video. So for that reason, my main criteria for withholding locations is just about whether or not my clips at a spot are in the public domain or not. I’ll jealously guard a spot with my life until the day an edit comes out, then I don’t really care.
With that said though, there’s an overspill spot in Northumberland that I’ve been asked about a few times, but the only way down into it is probably the most dangerous of anything I’ve ever been to. It’s a shimmy across a curved bank with a 3-storey drop underneath, to Spiderman leap onto the outside of a cage surrounding some ladders. Watching those guys do it when we were filming was so nerve racking, so the idea of giving that location to a crew, and then something terrible happening there isn’t really worth thinking about. So I’m keeping that one to myself!’
Craven’s perspective feeds into something common across all of the professional documentarians contacted during the process of putting this together. Barcelona-based photographer and heavy
Free
contributor Gerard Riera echoes much of the reoccurring focus on the aesthetic value of newly discovered spots and the necessity to be selective about which people to shoot with at these newly mined gems.
‘I’d be lying if I didn’t admit to thinking carefully about who I take to new spots, particularly as we’re talking about Barcelona where “new spots” get devoured quickly. At the same time I definitely feel some controversial feelings when I do this – am I doing the proper thing? Who knows?
A recent example of this came when Gustav Tønnesen shot a picture on a previously unskated Barcelona rail, which in itself is hard to believe right?
I know Gus is filming for a new Sour video so if after that sesh I start taking people to that rail, what’s gonna happen?
First, the spot will be burned soon and second, probably some other different footy will drop before Gustav’s (who discovered it and showed it to me).
Because of this, I have to keep this spot safe until his footy/photo sees the light: from a pro photographer angle, I’m just trying to respect Gus’ work in that case and do the correct thing from my point of view.
Other times, you find a new spot randomly in a new area. Then some of your homies invite other homies: that’s a classic situation. You can’t kill the vibe, and say: “yooo guys, please don’t film this… don’t shoot this… don’t post this… as much as you might want to”, because who wants to become the skate police, right? It’s not always under your control.
I do think skating fresh spots makes the scene bigger and better and probably opens some minds too in a different way, for sure. On the other hand, part of my job is still to save some spots until they are printed in the magazines in future issues. There are a lot of things going on in that one concept and when people’s livings are at stake, it makes it even more difficult to know what the right decision is.’
Gustav Tønnesen, switch backside 180 to 5-0, Barcelona. Ph. Gerard Riera
This tension between being the enablers of progressive, meaningful, pro-level skateboarding, whilst simultaneously being expected to gate-keep spot access is perhaps most keenly felt by people like Gerard whose jobs rely on skateboarding’s cultural currency, namely documentation of tricks.
Anthony Claravall’s take on this one is particularly interesting given his career trajectory from Californian-based pro filmer to Asia-based freelance tour guide and exposure channel for previously unacknowledged indigenous talent.
For Anthony, the whole concept of ‘over-skating’ spots reeks of sanctimony and pales into insignificance next to more important issues like conduct and showing respect.
‘People love to be hypocrites. Spots are only skated “too much” when it’s someone else. The main responsibility I feel is just to be cool to people at the spots. Don’t threaten or intimidate the people who live there, work there, the security, whomever. Try to go at the right time, be conscious of kids playing, respectful of pedestrians, especially the elderly. Stay cool if you are confronted by residents, clean up your garbage, get your clip, and dip.’
As someone who has acted as a guide to visiting pros in countries all over the world, Claravall is fully aware of the potential pitfalls of being ‘that guy who brought the Yanks over’ but is philosophical about the positive cultural impact that such an endeavour can have on local scenes whether it be in China or the Philippines.
‘To be honest, filming skateboarding at a professional level is how spots are utilised to their fullest potential. Usually locals have a spot that is not normally skated, a lot of times they want a pro skater to come and do the tricks that they dreamed of when they discovered it. Some product, an introduction to a pro, a signed shirt, anything goes a long way when it comes to showing gratitude. Sometimes it’s inviting them to the session so they can see how things go down.
I’ve met a lot of skaters over the years that have told me they were one of the young locals when I came through filming at their local spot years ago. If you were cool they might mention it and if you were an asshole they will definitely tell you!’
There’s another side to Claravall’s perspective on the ‘over-use’ of spots that goes beyond the potential for spaces to get shut down because of drawing too much attention to them and again, it speaks of a tension at the heart of skateboarding itself, specifically professionalised skating.
As London local Helena Long puts it:
‘When you get easy to find and well-known spots it kind of invites people to have a go where others have trod, to gauge their own skating against the list of ABDs. Those kinds of obvious spots naturally develop folklores around them, which then puts those objects into the mainstream of skate tourism. I guess in that sense over-use confers skate cultural value onto these places, but then being rinsed too much, it makes them hard spots to document anything new and exciting at. I feel you’ve got to bring something insane, an out of this world style or a completely new approach to them to make it interesting footage for a video.
In regards to documentation, it also circles back to whether it’ll be for an Instagram clip or if it’ll be in a real video. It’s kind of a shame when someone does something amazing at a spot for an Instagram clip only and someone may be sitting on something just as good but for a vid yet to be released. It’s a shame to throw away footage of these iconic spots in my opinion. But then again I don’t think this can really distort how good the clip is or how hyped someone is to see it so immediately.’
Others, like Norway’s Magnus Bordewick don’t feel any particular allegiance to either type of spot:
‘I don’t have a preference on this one, maybe I just haven’t thought about it too much. Sometimes it’s nice to skate a well-known spot and sometimes it’s nice to skate something newly discovered. Both have their place in skate media. On a personal level, I do like fixing up and looking for spots, but I think it looks good with a bit of both in a part. If I had to choose, I’d probably go with untouched spots though.’
On the topic of shooting at well-known and established spots, both Clément Le Gall and Mike Manzoori share similar perspectives about the double-edged sword of foregoing newly uncovered architecture in favour of the hotspots.
‘Absolutely it is sometimes boring to see the same spots in the mags but, as a photographer, if someone asks you to shoot something new on a legendary spot, you will never say no…’ Clément laughs. ‘It can be a challenge to find a new way to shoot on a famous spot and not make it look boring, but sometimes you just need to be focused on the trick and forget your artsy photo.’
This concept chimes with the thoughts of UK filmer Sirus F Gahan who, despite falling heavily on the side of conceptualising things whereby, ‘The spot is the trick – finding it and thinking up a way to skate it is the trick itself’, still recognises the worth of repeated use of certain famous spots.
‘There are spots where their cultural value increases the more they are skated. Something like London Bridge has obviously been skated for decades, but a good clip on it is never going to feel played out, (see Matlok in the Passport video or Felipe in the Carhartt vid). With spots like that there’s an intrinsic value in actually physically managing to procure a clip. Having recently spent many freezing cold mornings there myself, entering into actual screaming matches with civilians, I have the utmost respect to anyone that can even handle the sheer stress of attempting to skate it, let alone being athletically capable enough to chuck yourself down the stairs.’
Manzoori echoes the sentiment: ‘With these iconic spots, aside from respecting the ABDs, you can dispense with some of the politics regarding who holds some sense of ownership of the place. The subtext of the repetition varies depending on the vibe of the spot. Some become more and more culturally significant and even turn into pillars of the skate community like Southbank and others are less interesting if constantly skated. Often they will have waves of interest over the years as skating evolves and new generations create new potential for old spots and they can have multiple revivals.’
That mention of the notion of discovery conferring some assumption of ownership draws us back to Chris Jones’ situation and the impetus for this article. Are we to accept that idea or is this just another example of an outdated mode of thought as Josh Stewart put it?
Tom Knox, backside lipslide up, Istanbul. Ph. Alex Pires
Tom Knox, someone known for filming in very geographically specific and unique (at least aesthetically speaking) spaces, expresses a surprising lack of this mindset when talking about his own output.
‘I don’t feel ownership over the spots I skate, although I definitely do feel lucky to get to skate new stuff that hasn’t been rinsed. Jake (Harris) and I put in some work but it’s not like we’re going on huge missions to find stuff. If I think about all the estates we’ve skated, it’s mostly down to convenience, living close to them and just checking them out en route heading somewhere else then sometimes finding a gem and lots of the time not finding anything.’
When it comes to sharing what a lot of people might perceive to be ‘his spots’, Knox is equally blasé. ‘Estates look great on camera but there are lots of mega nause ups that you don’t see in footage: people stressing at you because of the noise, the shit ground, etc., so it’s not as if these places are perfect in any sense.
People rarely ask me for the locations, so I don’t really have much of an opinion as to whether I have any criteria for sharing them. I guess it depends who’s asking. I haven’t even got the locations saved for a lot of them, most of the ones in south I just follow Jake. Saying this, I was just in LA and it’s rough out there, I think if I lived there I would have to be a lot more territorial about my spots to avoid them getting destroyed before your footage even comes out. I like not having to think like that though.’
Clearly, geographic location has a huge part to play in this discussion, something made clear by one of the unpaid hobbyists running one of the skate spot Instagram accounts that this article might have unwittingly cast as the villain.
In huge cities, are you really causing issues by pointing people towards certain pieces of architecture? One of the unnamed heads behind a large UK-based spot account (
@LDNskatespot
) has this to say:
‘London is a vast metropolitan area, filled with obscure things to skate. I used to often discover spots whilst cycling around and thought that I’d share them with whoever is interested in using them. I’ve had people from around the world message me saying that my account had inspired them to visit, with scooter and BMX riders also showing an interest.’
Likewise, an account from another major European city with a huge follower base (
@paris.secret.spot
) views their endeavour more through the lens of encouraging skateboard tourism rather than cultural vandalism.
‘I created it just for fun and to share the secret spots I was riding without any particular ambition. It became big very quickly, which was totally unexpected. The goal now is to help skaters from here to find the hundreds spots of Paris and to help with sessions and filming to hype up Paris as a skate destination, as much as to provide happiness to people from all over the world that are here just to skate and have fun.’
Not quite the scurrilous tabloid exposés that you might have thought, right?
Equally, both people actively search for and find spots themselves, rather than relying on user submissions, which sets their activities on a higher level of cultural legitimacy, surely?
One of the heads behind the London account said, ‘I would say that 90% are spots that I have solely discovered myself. Some followers send in pictures of their local spots and some send over spots they’ve found by trawling Google Street View but I’ve found the vast majority myself.’ With his French counterpart saying roughly the same thing: ‘of the 300 Paris spots I’ve posted to date, I personally found and photographed 80% of them.’
When quizzed as to whether there had been any negative responses to this free-of-charge spot location service both reply in the negative, although our French connection does have some cautionary advice.
‘The only “negative” comments I’ve had have been on spots in the hood where people have commented saying that it’s too dangerous to skate there due to criminality or drug issues in that district. Twice I’ve had skaters message the account saying how they’ve had cameras robbed whilst they were filming at particular spots I have posted. Neither was to complain to me though, and in both cases, the filmers were insured so it worked out. The “negative comments” were more informative for other followers. It is true that in Paris we have some ghetto places that house crazy spots where skaters are not welcomed but whenever I post about these kinds of areas I give extra advice: be careful, go in a group, go early in the morning. Honestly though, the city is not how the media or the extreme right portray it, you can skate nearly everywhere if you are careful and show respect. I give the spot and the information then you need to decide if it’s worth the risk.’
The repeated refrain of showing respect for both the spots themselves and the communities around them, along with also consciously nodding towards skateboarding’s embedded customs and traditions is central to Bobby Puleo’s take on this topic. Puleo is well known as a vocal advocate of skateboarding history and culture and a man unafraid to ruffle feathers by sifting through minutiae; as such, his take on this was both intriguing and singular.
‘The part of skateboarding that I always found most interesting was the concept of finding the unique object. That is something of a skill because you need the wherewithal or the mindset or whatever you want to call it in order to be able to locate or identify that object, which might be sitting in front of everyone’s face. That unique object needs someone to establish that it is skateable and that something is possible on it. Then, because skateboarding operates within an industry where people are building careers on creating content by “doing tricks”, you necessarily come up against the reality that said unique object quickly loses its singularity once it’s identified as good for skating. It used to be that once a trick has been done on a certain spot, you couldn’t then do the same trick on the same spot. That was a rule enshrined in the culture. I think it was Mike Carroll who established that pretty early on, (maybe in a
Skateboarder
article) that redoing tricks at spots, or the “ABD” was one of the things that you didn’t do if you cared about the culture of skateboarding. Effectively what becomes a thing in the concept of you finding the spot is the risk that by you opening up the door and showing that it’s skateable, you essentially open up the possibility of somebody else going there and filming/shooting the same thing.’
Bobby Puleo, frontside kickflip, NYC, 2001. Ph. Rob Erickson
Puleo recognises the economic substructure upon which this paradoxical situation sits however and acknowledges that, to your average skateboarder at least, much of this comes across as self-regarding dogmatism.
‘As the person who’s making money off of the act of skateboarding then it’s me whose livelihood and cultural value is to some extent put in jeopardy by the possibility of this object being found and/or skated by other people. That’s the economics of the situation. Does it matter more if the person who skates it after me is another “professional” rather than a regular skateboarder? Quite possibly.
To your average person who is skating for the joy of doing it, what we’re talking about isn’t really going to be a concern. To that person, they’re just skating, there’s no transaction or expectation to create content to fulfil a job role.
When you become a pro skater and your lifestyle depends on that skill then this kind of stuff will become more important to you and it can then become inflated so as to seem ridiculous to anyone not looking at it from that professionalised perspective. The whole notion of claiming spot ownership to your average person outside of “the industry” seems ridiculous. I’ve been called all kinds of stuff by people who’ve reacted to things I’ve said about this very issue – from “bitter” to “delusional” – and from the perspective of someone not trying to make a living through skating that makes absolute sense.
Unless you monetise your skateboarding, you’re unlikely to be too upset about other people skating “your spot” or knowing its location.
With that said though, even without the economic aspect, it’s still perfectly reasonable for the person who first found or made a spot skateable to want to bask in the glory of getting the first trick there. I don’t think that there’s anything intrinsically wrong with that at all – it’s a recognised aspect of skate culture.’
Puleo’s musings bring us full circle and back to the dichotomy that first sparked this article. Does it get us any closer to a definitive answer as to who was in the right with the initial Chris Jones/Parisian skate spot Insta account situation? Clearly not, as the whole issue is far too nuanced to really designate any of the players involved as either the hero or the villain. Perhaps it’s reasonable to assert however that the intersection between professionalised skateboarding and the experience of normal, hobbyist skateboarding that is the reality for 99% of all skaters on the planet creates some interesting and ultimately enriching ripples across the surface of our culture.
Or to put it another way: Who’s in charge? Nobody’s in charge: just don’t be a dickhead.
Chris Jones, ollie into the bank, duck under, Paris. Ph. Sam Ashley

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  January 6, 2020
I Only Have Eyes For You
Tom Remillard, Japan, Krakow. All photos: Kuba Bączkowski. Words: Tom Remillard
I’ll try and make this section short and to the point. My mother was born in Bytom, Poland. Her mother remarried and took her to America in 1973. She was bummed to say the least leaving her father behind. Fast forward to 1990 and I am born. Then fast-forward again to 1998 and I’m on my first trip to meet my grandfather, which continued almost every summer until 2006 when he passed away. After this I started to get love or whatever they call it from skating and began travelling, contest circuiting, etc. and I didn’t find time to come back until 2017 when we started working on Purple. I got a ticket and just said ‘I’m gonna go back to Krakow and Warsaw and make friends with the skaters of Poland.’ One of them in particular I was more or less searching for was Michał Juras´. Preston Maigetter, aka the great and honourable P-Stone, told me about Michał and that he was Poland’s first global Pro and that at some point in my life I needed to skate with him. I arrived in Krakow and was DM’d by local ripper Kuba Brniak and Pierre Dziedzic, owner of Skate or Die skateshop. They brought me to Warsaw and introduced me to Michał who introduced me to Kuba Kacmarczyk filmer/director and Kuba Bączkowski the photographer. Anyway we became instant friends. We have done trips to Poland, Germany, Croatia, Czech Republic, etc. We are bros as they would say… So when Kuba Kaczmarczyk told me he wanted to spend the summer making an edit and was given a budget to do it through Eastern Europe and said, ‘if you could figure out some travel arrangements we would love to have you.’
I called up my respective links and said, ‘what do you think? Wanna support me on this one and get me some tickets?’ They graciously agreed and we went on a two-part trip first to Ukraine and the next strictly Poland: Krakow and Warsaw. The crew consisted of Michał Juras, Jan Henrik Kongstein, Didrik Galasso aka Deedz, Eniz Fazliov, Tomek Ziółkowski, Kuba Brniak and myself.
Didrik Galasso, backside 50-50, Odessa.
Odessa
Our first destination was Odessa, Ukraine and to say the least: you need to be on your toes out there. The locals and of course police aren’t too hyped on skateboarding.
On the first day we went straight to it: we left the hotel to hit the streets. Deedz and I have been friends for years; he was our tour guide in Copenhagen years ago when Willis and I came to visit, then he came to San Diego to stay with me for a few weeks. So we were so hyped to see each other. We just started pushing down the street as fast as we could then all of a sudden I hear ‘TOM!’ I look back, too late; I’m being thrown into the air, picked up by the hood of a Mercedes doing some sort of corked 360 to the pavement. I watched each tire pass me mid-air so I thought that’s good. After I gather myself the guy driving pulls over and tries to fight me. I yell at him ‘hey fucker you win.’ The crew rolls up before things could properly escalate. He gets back in his midlife crisis mobile and we continue on. Skateboarding ensues the rest of the day and tricks are catalogued: heelflips, pole-jams you get the idea. Night arrives and we are tired; we’ve been getting hit by cars and kicked out of spots by over muscled local street heroes. We think it’s a good idea to have some beers outside the hostel. You know take it easy… Ha! Not in Odessa! Surprise lurks around every corner and sure enough out of the fog comes a random American guy maybe 60 years old. He’s all fucked up on heroin for sure; he looks like your average retired dad. I notice he’s holding what seems like a needle and trying to conceal it. He starts walking toward Kuba (filmer) who has his back turned. I say ‘stop right there man, what’s that in your hand?’ ‘Oh nothing, nothing where are you guys from? I’m Roger, I’m from Virginia…’ He tries to spark conversation and to manipulate the conversation away from the fact he has a needle in his hand. I just say. ‘I don’t care what you’re saying. WHAT’S THE NEEDLE DOING IN YOUR HAND MAAAN!?’ He oddly and quickly puts the needle in his pocket. We start to exchange more words. I say a few things to him that are kinda heavy, don’t need to go into it, but heavy. His tone changes, he does the classic ‘whatever man, this isn’t worth my time’ and walks off. This situation was so weird, if there’s anybody looking for their dad from Virginia Beach named Roger he’s in Odessa on the H. Roger leaves… Back to beer yes! And calmness yes! Nooo! Less than five minutes after Roger goes here comes Odessa’s finest. We are like, ‘you got to be kidding me!’ These guys do the classic no beers on the street routine and the negotiating begins. Of course nobody speaks Ukrainian and I speak the best English so I’m communicating with these guys. We keep doing the merry-go-round of how should we solve this without having to take us in. I find the moment, I tell the crew to empty their wallets so everyone took out cash and coins. I wad up the cash into a ball, which is probably the amount of 15 euros, and I just ask the cops to leave us alone and don’t bother us again. We just wanna drink beers outside this hot hostel and you’re just making up laws as you go so could you please just fuck off for life? They did. I get back into my room and take off my mask of confidence. Anxiety and paranoia mixed with heavy jet lag engulfs me like, ‘Where the fuck am I? This place is insane.’ I basically don’t sleep for three days after this. You will see the effects of this in the video I promise.
Tomek Ziółkowski, pole-jam, Odessa.
The trip presses on. Odessa is littered with golden skate spots… If you’re a fan of New York East Coast cellar door skating: this is your land. I would love to see Bobby Puleo, Ricky Oyola, Jahmal Williams, Ron Deily and others skate here. It was built for them. The only problem getting this gold is every person walking down the street or worker at the building etc. will kick you out and try and fight you. Deedz got hit mid-line by an old lady with her purse, which we thought was great. Here’s a story I heard verbatim from one of the others because I wasn’t there. One morning Jan, Deedz and Kubas filmer and photographer went back to this monument we had tried to hit midday, so this time they went really early in the morning. They thought ‘yeah 6am we will be good.’ Nope! Cops roll up and from what I was told the Kubas, Deedz and Jan take off running in different directions (which is smart, it decreases the odds), they catch Deedz, they cuff him and threw him in the cop car. They grill him for money; he’s got like 40 Ukrainian on him or something. Deedz is so rad because if you know him he doesn’t have a big margin for fear. He was apparently laughing this whole time like, ‘duuuudes I don’t have anything!’ They were probably just thrown off by his lack of caring and fear of the situation and probably just said to themselves: ‘This dude’s nuts and he has no drugs; let’s just let him go.’
Michał Juraś, ollie up, ollie over, Odessa.
The rest of the trip goes pretty well: there are daily occurrences of weirdness but we find the rhythm. I get to see first-hand the raw power of this crew. Michał is a beast… We’ve known this for years now so he’s doing his thing stacking clips on all terrains with ease. With unrivalled willpower, I just want to side thank Michał real quick and say some stuff about him because this dude holds it heavy for his country. From letting out-of-towners stay at his house for weeks on end, to helping push the younger guys to skate harder and everything in between: this guy is just a great representation of skateboarding.  Now there’s also little Kuba Brniak, a young ripper from Krakow, who you will all be a fan of very soon. He’s the youngest of the bunch; he’s very good and still learning how to not trip over his shoelaces. Now I want to talk about Eniz Fazliov and Jan Henrik Kongstein. First off wow, Jan is a beast! Super stylish, super clean, amazing trick selection, but beyond all of that a nice and very bright man. He’s so easy to talk with, super open-minded, properly opinionated: just a class person. Jan you are great: love you dude! As for Eniz, there’s only one other person I’ve seen with that kind of commitment on a skateboard and that is Milton Martinez, so you get the idea. Beyond that he’s an amazing individual, so open-minded and not even close to too cool. Europe is lucky to have him as one of their skateboarding front men: the very best! Now there’s one more dude I need to mention: Tomek Ziółkowski of Warsaw aka Tommy G. Tomek grew up rough. He’s one of those listen and say very little types, which I like. He’s constantly observing his surroundings. He’s someone you really have to earn his trust and friendship, which we are all honoured to have done so. His skating is a mix between Shane O’Neill and Bobby Puleo if that can even make sense. He does stuff like nollie nosemanual nollie 360 flip out, etc. but then do the craziest crustiest cellar door alleyway hits. It’s a mix I have never seen before and a beautiful one at that.
Michał Juraś, frontside 180, Odessa.
Krakow & Warsaw
Back to the homeland!
A few weeks go by and we take our respected planes to Krakow. Having endured and survived Odessa, we are all good friends and very familiar with each other at this point. I’m very excited because this is the first trip I’ve ever been on with a mixed crew in Poland. So between Michał, Tomek and the Kubas we are so happy to show these guys how much the country has progressed. Krakow is honestly one of the most beautiful cities on the planet. Not over crowded, great food, amazing summer weather, beautiful well-preserved architecture, not too expensive… I could go on. I don’t think people really know how modern Poland has become. There really weren’t too many stories of adversity, except for the first day, which seems to be our theme, ha ha. The first day starts off great, everyone gets at least a trick and a photo and we are stoked. The day is coming to a close when Kuba the filmer says ‘oh shit I can’t find the keys to the apartment.’ We are like, ‘what do you mean?’ He’s like, ‘I don’t know where they are.’ We do the classic retrace our steps project and nothing: he lost them. All of our stuff is in the apartment, we stink from a hot skate day and the only place we can stay is this one room in a hostel. Not so bad; we just accept the situation and decide to stay out late so we don’t have to be crammed in there all night. We head back in the late evening, pass out and get up the next day and replace the keys: all good. This becomes a small joke on Kuba daily though. He knew he blew it and took our jokes like a champ. The rest of the trip is easy: no one gets hurt, clips and photos are stacked. We skate all day and party when we have earned it. Honestly these trips are so amazing because everyone is around the same age. We’ve all been doing this for a while. We know what to do and what not to do and when to do it. No crazy wildcards, well maybe I’m the wildcard, but whatever we got it. We have an amazing time in Krakow then we head to Warsaw.
Eniz Fazliov, frontside boardslide , Warsaw.
Warsaw is different than Krakow, it’s the capital of Poland and a very metropolitan city. It’s where Michał Tomek, Kuba Kaczmarczyk and Kuba Bączkowski are from. Needless to say we get the keys to the city and all spots are pre-booked for us; it was very nice and productive. Also to add: this city has one of the most unique DIY parks I’ve ever seen: the Szaber bowl. Look it up. Anyway, I wish I had more stories of sketchy car hits and cracked out midlife crisis tweakers, but honestly in Krakow and Warsaw it was amazing to see the reaction of the guys who had never been there—how much they enjoyed their time. Jan in particular was loving Warsaw like, ‘Tom let’s rent an apartment here next summer!’ ‘Hell yeah let’s do that for sure Jan,’ holding you to it. I have a feeling very soon Poland will be another regular destination on the maps to the skater’s homes.
Eniz Fazliov, ride on backside lipslide, Warsaw.
This is a Grey Area Video project. Even by the skaters involved, little is known about this video… When exactly it will debut or how exactly it will be edited. We just rode our skateboards, became friends, and Kuba filmed it. We just trust that it will give the feel and hype we are all looking for.
One last thing I would like to add is that we had a lot of friends pass this year: Mark Hubbard, Ben Raemers, Pablo Ramirez, and Phelper and we really were pushing ourselves in their name and dedicate this project to them. Tell your friends and family you love them and cherish the moments you have. Make new friends, keep your old ones very close, explore new lands, and show respect so you can be welcomed back.
Tom Remillard, frontside wallbash, Warsaw.
Some additional information from Kuba (the filmer):
I was asked to make a small addition to the text written by Tom. I’ve been filming skateboarding for many, many years and it was always for a full-length video. After the last video I decided I’d either quit filming skateboarding or change the formula and pursue new challenges. As I’m not just ready for retirement yet we came up with something new: let’s focus on a shorter form project and film on trips. The destinations for the first episode of the new chapter in my life were: Odessa and Krakow (and of course my hometown Warsaw, where I film in the meantime). Why those cities? The title Grey Area describes a certain type of aesthetic in skateboarding. So with a bunch of Euro underdogs plus one half European we hit the dirty east. Here are a few facts and urban legends about those cities you’ve probably never heard of.
Jan Henrik Kongstein, backside lipslide, Krakow.
Odessa, Ukraine
According to my friend Sergej, ‘it’s cellar door paradise; you guys have to go there!’ said Mr Vutuc when he saw our crew skating last year. Indeed, the spots were crazy good. Odessa is the major touristic centre of Ukraine. Its city centre doesn’t look like your typical Soviet city centre: you can see the French influence in their architecture for sure, it’s lovely. The rest of the town (or the parts we’ve been to) looked gloomier but this is what I was looking for… Odessa is very well known for its tradition with organised crime. The gang called Odessa Mafia was established in this city and now it’s considered the biggest post-Soviet gang in the US.
Tomek Ziółkowski, ride on nosegrind, Warsaw.
Krakow, Poland
It’s the former capital of Poland. Warsaw became the capital in the 17th century. Because of this there is a beef going on between these two cities. It also has the most beautiful old town in Poland and its famous for having a very laid back vibe. The rest of Poland calls Krakow’s citizens ‘Cents’ as they’re considered penny-pinchers (even penurious). It’s also a very popular place for British bachelor parties (stag-dos).
Kuba Brniak, roll in, Warsaw.
Warsaw, Poland
It’s the city where I was born and where I’ve been living for over 40 years. It’s the current capital of Poland, which Krakow citizens are jealous about. According to the books (obviously mostly Polish) it was called ‘Paris of the East’. Unfortunately you can’t see that now as the whole city was completely destroyed during the Second World War. In total 84 per cent of the buildings were brought down. Now the city develops super fast and new buildings are popping up on every corner. A fun fact is that Warsaw has become a super vegan friendly town – there are 47 vegan restaurants now and growing.
Eniz Fazliov, backside smith grind, Warsaw.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 8, 2021
The American Dream (part 6 of 6): Chany Jeanguenin
The American Dream
is a series of six interviews with European pros, looking back at their experiences of moving to California to pursue skateboarding careers.
Chany Jeanguenin, 1997. Ph. Grant Brittain
Interview by Will Harmon
Before you went to the States for your first time, what did you know about it? What were your preconceptions?
Chany Jeanguenin: Ok so we’re talking the early nineties here, so this was before the Internet, before cell phones, social media, etc. So what I knew from the States is from what I saw in the movies and of course VHS skateboard videotapes. So for me, it seemed like it was the mecca of skateboarding: skateparks everywhere, street spots, it was the driving force of skateboarding. If you want to be a skateboarder then that’s where you want to be. But for me it seemed unreachable, a place that only existed in movies. I went from thinking I could never actually get there, to being there. Everything happened so fast, also I didn’t know the difference between the East Coast and the West Coast or what was in San Francisco when I first arrived there.
So your first visit was in ’92 I believe you told me before, and you flew straight to SF. Why did you choose there? Did you know anyone?
So I was sponsored by Real through a European distributor called Brazil. My friend Yves here (in Switzerland) was the distributor for Real, World Industries, etc. and he had been taking me around to all these European contests and I was doing quite well and I was pretty much a vert skater at the time. I mean I could skate street, but at that time it had turned to all these pressure flips and tech tricks so I just preferred vert back then. I won the European championship in Belgium in vert in ’92 and then I did the Munster European championship and I got fourth in vert, this is the year the ramp broke down in the qualifiers.
The ramp broke down?
The platform deck fell down and a bunch of people got hurt. Rune got first in that comp, but anyways I was doing well in these contests and that same distributor I was talking about did a tour with Salman Agah, Karma, Ron Chatman, John Cardiel, the Gonz and he took me along the tour with them. So Yves was in direct contact with Deluxe and one day he told me he had sent a tape of me to Real… But I hadn’t remembered filming anything! So it was a mystery to me what he even sent, I’m still trying to find out, ha ha. And I don’t wanna say he was full of shit, but he says a lot of stuff. So I was like, ‘what tape did you send? I never filmed anything!’ And he says, ‘they saw your run in this contest, blah blah blah, you should come to San Francisco with me. You have a chance… Maybe they wanna do a board with you for Europe…’ So he convinced my parents, he convinced me and I believed everything he said. He kind of sold me a dream and I had just gotten out of high school and I was starting an apprenticeship to be an architect.
Oh ok…
Yves said: ‘Hey come to SF with me; I can get you a ticket through the Swiss Federation,’ or something because I was champion a few times, and then the next thing you know he has the plane tickets. I was two and a half months into a 4-year course, so I had to leave before the 3-month trial period ended. Then a few days later we were on a flight to the States; it was so sudden.
It does sound pretty spur of the moment.
I was stoked, I thought I was gonna get to skate that skatepark that Aphonzo Rawls and Danny Way were skating (Mike McGill’s skatepark) and all these vert ramps I’d seen. So I knew nothing about geography and where all the stuff was, but I knew I was on a flight to San Francisco and I was gonna be there for three months. I was planning to go there to skate, learn some English, then go back to Switzerland to resume the apprenticeship.
Backside air, Encinitas YMCA ramp, Encinitas, California, 1996. Ph. Grant Brittain
I see…
So when I got there, I couldn’t speak English so I couldn’t communicate with people and I realised my friend hadn’t planned on where I was gonna stay. I thought he had been talking to Jim Thiebaud and these guys, but I had to stay at Shrewgy’s house for one night, then Dave Metty and Jordan Richter’s house, just all the skate houses and I would stay on the floor; nothing was really planned. I was 17, I didn’t speak English, and I had to get a letter from my parents in order to pass the border with Yves, and then the next thing you know after a few days he’s like, ‘hey yeah I guess I found a spot for you, but I have to go to LA for a trade show so I’m leaving.’ And I was like, ‘wait, what? You’re not even gonna be with me for a week?’ So he dumped me, just left me there in SF…
Ah man, brutal. But were you skating with everyone there in SF?
Yeah I was skating and all these guys were super-nice. And they knew I liked vert, but there was no vert ramp there. Of course I could skate street a little, but I wasn’t on the level at the time. When I went to Embarcadero I was so psyched, like ‘Oh EMB!’ as I had no idea it was there in San Francisco.
Ha ha ha…
And I thought the ramp in the New Deal videos that Neal Hendrix skated might be there, ‘where’s this one? Where’s this?’ And they were like, ‘oh that’s the other side of the US.’ I was clueless. But I did get to see Mike Carroll filming lines at Embarcadero for
Virtual Reality
, so that was sick. Also I was there when Salman Agah switch ollied the fire hydrant (in
the first Real video
); I was in the van with Edward Devera and Kelly Bird, but I didn’t film anything then. My street skating was not up to par back then and also I was super-shy. So there came a point where I really wanted to skate vert and the guys suggested San Diego, because of the YMCA vert ramp. So I stayed a month in San Francisco and then I journeyed to San Diego, which was scary, as I didn’t know where to stay.
Had you picked up any English yet? (Chany spoke French)
A little bit from staying with the Real guys, but not that much. Also trying to get on a payphone to try and ring my parents was a nightmare. Also I didn’t really want to tell them about my uncertain situation and it got worse when I got to San Diego…
Ok tell us about that.
So I tried to meet up with my friend
Oli (Buergin)
, who was hooked up with Santa Cruz at the time, as he said he was going to San Diego. I don’t know how we communicated back then with no cell phones or email… Fax machine or some shit? Anyways I decided to take the flight down there to San Diego. From the airport I took a bus up to Encinitas and showed up at Street Life (skate shop) with my suitcase trying to find the YMCA ramp. RP Bess, Jason Maxwell, (Chris) Lambert and all these guys were there and they still remember this. I somehow found my friend Oli and we rented a hotel room for two nights and skated the YMCA vert ramp. But then he left, just before Christmas Eve he flew back to Switzerland. So I’m alone and I had to check out of the hotel because I couldn’t afford it on my own. My next plan was to meet up with Ocean Howell, because I had met him on a Birdhouse tour in Europe with Willy Santos and he had come up to Dave Metty’s when I was staying there when in SF. He and Marcus Wyndham had come to SF for a week and we skated together and they gave me a number and said if I ever came down to San Diego to hit them up. So I had their contact and I thought I could stay with them, so this was in the back of my head, but in the end I couldn’t get in touch with them. I had to stay at the homeless centre at the YMCA on Christmas Eve, my Sony Walkman got stolen and there were all these gnarly dudes there…
Fuck…
In the morning the people at the Y were like, ‘what are you doing here? You’re not homeless…’ I’m a 17-year-old kid that didn’t speak English staying in this hostile environment, because there were fights there and stuff. So the people that were serving food on Christmas took me to their house after, and they were all opening presents as I sat there and watched Jeopardy and I couldn’t understand anything.
They felt sorry for you.
Yeah for sure… So I stayed at their house on Christmas Day and then the next day I was able to get ahold of Ocean. He said for me to come down to Hillcrest in San Diego. So the people dropped me off at the bus stop in Oceanside and I took the bus back to San Diego and I was able to find
Ocean
and
Marcus
in Hillcrest. I pretty much stayed two months at their house, which was really awesome. This is where I would say I crafted my street skills, because those two were on fire back then, and we’d skate through Hillcrest everyday. I wanted to learn switch so I had this route where I’d skate switch all the way to the Balboa fountain spot.
So this was early ’93 now…
Yeah. Then eventually Ocean gave me a pep talk like, ‘hey you need to bounce…’
Yeah I guess you’d been at their place for two months and worn out your welcome…
Yeah, but I had nowhere to stay. I would take the bus to the YMCA and skate the vert ramp once or twice a week and I would try and meet people but then the whole thing got sketchy… I was trying to get back to SF but my friends there said their houses were full. So the next thing I know I was on the streets again and I had to try and find a new person to stay with every night. But I was still really grateful for Ocean and Marcus letting me stay. Years later Marcus told me, ‘I felt so bad that we’d left you in the street; we told you that you had to go…’ But I was like, ‘no, thank you! You have no idea. I didn’t know any better and you guys were super cool.’ Then it was all survival, but at the same time I’m skating every day, I’m skating all these spots I’d seen in videos, Greyhound bumps, etc. and it was amazing! I wasn’t bummed. It was definitely a mission, but being in California and seeing all of this… It was definitely worth it to me.
Backside lipslide, La Jolla, California, 1999. Ph. Dave Swift
So after three months weren’t you meant to leave? Like go back to Switzerland?
After three months I just decided to stay longer. I was too scared to tell my parents the truth. Vert skating was dead… I just wanted to skate because I’d lived and breathed skating for so many years. At one point Yves came back over for another trade show or something and he’s like, ‘how’s it been going with Real?’ I mean I talked to them a bit and got product, but I never talked to them about any deals because it was too awkward and I realised that as a vert skater, what was the point? Also I think I was too intimidated to talk to Jim Thiebaud, Tommy (Guerrero) or Jeff Klindt… But they did hook me up with this thing to do demos in China for three weeks. It was with Max Schaaf, Remy Stratton and some BMX riders and it was good money. So when I first got to San Francisco Max had a ramp, but Max was like, ‘ah no one skates my ramp and definitely not this random Euro guy…’ But then we went on that trip to China and Max and I got along really well and we skated vert… It was a sketchy-ass setup on carpet, with Star Wars music, crappy vert ramps, it’s not like the China you see these days with all the marble plazas, this was the early ‘90s… Anyways the whole thing was insane, but then after three weeks of those demos Max invited me back to San Francisco to skate his ramp.
Ah nice. So you went back to SF from SD?
Yeah I went for a week or two and skated Max’s ramp and (Jake) Phelps’ ramp as well. And there a cool thing happened: I shot a sequence that got ran in
Slap
. It was a backside 360 ollie to fakie on Jake’s vert ramp. And Max told me that Phelps even said, ‘that’s my favourite sequence on the ramp.’ I don’t know if it’s true, but it meant a lot to me.
So you’re finally getting some validation from the big names.
Yeah he validated me. And I was still technically with Real so I was in the mix, so they knew of me. Getting that sequence helped me I think as later on I was invited to go with Deluxe to the
‘Shut Up and Skate!’
contest in Texas. So I think they were really starting to like me and the funny thing is, at that contest I decided to enter the street comp, as I had been skating street a lot more down in San Diego, but I just blew it in my run. Then I entered the amateur vert contest there and I won it, ha ha! I did a switch flip on the vert ramp and some 360s or something and it’s in an old
411VM
. Then right after that Real put my name in one of their team ads, even though they misspelled it, ha ha.
I’m sure your name has been confusing Americans for years. That’s still pretty sick though!
So all that happened in my first year there.
That’s amazing. So did you extend your visa or something? How were you able to stay longer?
It was definitely easier back then. I went to some office in downtown San Diego and just sorted it so I could stay for a year. Things were still kind of sketchy but I eventually linked up with Mike Crum and Steve Berra, also Jeff Taylor, Jason King, etc. Those guys helped me so much; it was a game changer. So finally I ended up with the right people and they looked out for me, so that’s when I decided I wanted to stay. These guys like Richard Angelides, James Riff and these skaters from Texas were doing the same thing as me, just hustling to try to live in Cali. So they got an apartment with like 12 people in there and I just stayed with them and sometimes Berra also. Some of the guys were on Planet Earth so I got into their inner-circle and I even got a job there…
Yeah what did you do for money this whole time? Did you have savings?
My parents had given me their credit card and they told me, ‘no more than $500 a month,’ but I spent very little because I thought that if I spent too much they would tell me to come home. That’s why I didn’t stay in hotels; I’d stay at homeless shelters and spend very little on food. And then I got that money from the China trip, that was $800 and I knew that would last me a few more months. So when I linked up with the Planet Earth dudes I got a job there, wait, was I getting $5 an hour?
Ha ha, that long ago, probably.
Ha ha, I think that’s what I got, anyways I had the part-time warehouse job and I’d skate with them every day. I was still riding for Real, but I’m in the
Planet Earth Industry section
(of
411VM
) skating at the warehouse doing a pop-shuv or something and it says ‘warehouse worker riding for Real’ by my name.
Frontside nosegrind, Carlsbad, 2003. Ph. Jody Morris
So then you just made the switch to Planet Earth?
Well let me backtrack a bit, shortly after the Shut Up and Skate comp I was at this street comp in San Luis Obispo and I was skating this mini-ramp and I broke my foot.
The contest that
Guy frontside flips the spine
? And all the Girl guys were wearing the Girl shirts as they’d just started the brand?
Yeah that’s the one! So I broke my foot at that contest and Salman picked me up in his arms; I was crying… I’d never hurt myself like that before. Things were going so good and then the next thing I know I’m in a cast and I had to go back to Switzerland as it was close to a year since I first got to the US.
So when I left I had no idea if I was gonna come back and I didn’t talk to Real about what would happen next or whatnot. And the Planet Earth guys were really sad to see me go too, as we had a really good relationship. So I’m back in Switzerland and I didn’t know if I was ever going to go back to the States. I had an incredible year, I skated amazing spots, met great people, learned English, but I was kinda thinking maybe I should start that apprenticeship again.
So what did you decide?
Well when I went home (to Switzerland) of course I kept in contact with the Real guys and the Planet Earth guys wanted me to come back, so I think I called Jim Thiebaud and I was trying to get help for a ticket to come back and I didn’t get a good feeling, or maybe not that, but just that I felt that they weren’t so invested in me. But then I had all the Planet Earth guys in my ear like, ‘ah come back! We’ll set you up! You’ll ride for Planet Earth!’ I had to quit Real; it was awful. It wasn’t about money, because I was an amateur, but they offered me a place to stay and to really be part of the team… So I made the decision when I was back home healing my foot in Switzerland. I was back for three months and I decided I needed to get back to San Diego. It was Jason King and Felix Arguelles that really convinced me. I don’t know how I convinced my parents to let me go back again, but I did.
Sick, so you’re back in SD, on Planet Earth…
Yeah I was back and a full amateur on PE. I got the cover of
Transworld
with Grant Brittain and we did a big Planet Earth tour around the US and then we filmed for the
Hiatus
video
.
Yeah you had the last part! And you were an amateur! Did you go pro after that?
I didn’t go pro for Planet Earth; I went pro for Felix’s company Rhythm, a branch off of PE in ’95. I was 19 years old.
I remember the
Swiss Army knife board
.
The whole thing was such a surreal experience. It was my second time ever being on an airplane when I first came to SF, I didn’t speak English, I didn’t know anyone, I was homeless for a bit… Then a couple years later I have loads of friends, I’m skating all the spots I used to have photos of hung on my wall, I’m living in San Diego, I got the last part in the PE vid and then I turn pro for Rhythm.
You really made it! You were living the American Dream. Were there any things you didn’t like about America once you’d been living there a bit?
No, absolutely nothing, ha ha. I just loved it there. I was so stoked on all the junk food: PB Max, Hot Tamales, Del Taco… There were no pro skateboarders in Switzerland, no skate houses back then. I remember thinking, ‘what skaters are just living together? Skating and eating fast food and just going out all day and skating the streets?’ It was my first time even seeing skyscrapers… I grew up in a forest (a small town called Bienne) with no skate spots at all. We had no skatepark. I don’t even know how I got into skating. We could only skate on weekends because we had school, so we’d take the train to this vert ramp. But sometimes when we got there it would be wet and we’d get toilet paper from the ice skating rink and try to dry up the ramp. Sometimes there was even ice on the ramp so we’d buy rubbing alcohol and light it on fire to burn the ice. We just went through so much crap to skate… So living in California when it was sunny all the time and there were no winters… It was just so great.
So after another last part (in the Ty Evans produced)
Rhythm
Genesis
video
you left Rhythm to become one of the first riders on the newly formed
Expedition
team, who you rode for the remainder of your pro career… But I want to ask you about the point where you didn’t make enough money through skateboarding, and what you did to get by then?
Well the whole Expedition thing was complicated; so when we formed Expedition I was a part owner, so I didn’t take a paycheck at first. I invested a lot of my own money into that company. But at the time I had a contract and a shoe on Converse so that’s where 90% of my salary came from. I was also getting money from other sponsors like Droors clothing, so I was doing fine. Then Converse ended their skate program in 2001 and then 9/11 happened and it was a tough time. But this whole time before that I didn’t spend that much money, and I had bought a house and maybe it was my Swiss upbringing, but I actually had saved money every year I lived there since coming back that second time. I was renting rooms in my house so I was always able to make it. When the Converse thing ended I wasn’t really good at selling myself and asking for stuff so I called Kelly Bird. He had previously asked me to quit Cons to ride for DVS so I wanted to see if they still had a spot for me, but now their team was full and my value was kinda going down as Expedition wasn’t doing any tours or even taking out any ads at that time. But I did manage to do some commercials around then. I was part of SAG and I did 3-4 commercials for like Chili’s, Propel Water/Gatorade, etc. and it was good money.
Ah that’s good. Yeah those things generally pay well.
Yeah during that time that saved me because Expedition wasn’t paying me and shoe companies weren’t exactly knocking on my door until Osiris did a few times. After months of thinking about it I reluctantly decided to skate for Osiris as they gave me an offer. I respected Tony Magnusson and Brian Reid, but I wasn’t so into Osiris to be honest. I just didn’t have many options then. I went on the Aftermath tour and that was amazing, plus I got along with the team, so I thought maybe I could help change the brand’s image… But I never wanted to wear those big logo t-shirts, also I’d never had ankle problems before and I sprained my ankle in those shoes three times in my first year riding for them, ha ha. So I eventually quit after a couple years. And so I was still putting my own money into Expedition and not getting much back from it, so finally in 2007, after years of arguments I said ‘no more!’ and I wanted to leave, but then they gave me a pay raise and I started doing the team manager role as I said they needed that as that job was never done right. So I went from almost quitting, to taking the reins back.
Yeah there was a little resurgence of the team around then. Joey Pepper and Rob Welsh got on, Enrique Lorenzo, Kenny Hoyle, Spencer Hamilton, Kelly Hart, etc.
Yeah I helped get those guys on. I rebuilt the team, but still things weren’t perfect. There were always sticks in the wheels from Troy (Morgan). But things were a lot better and I was really hyped to start new and then I tore two ligaments in my knee and never fully recovered from it. But we had a really good team and Expedition was back, even with the stick in the wheels we did amazing stuff, for almost seven years.
So what year did you finally say ‘enough is enough’ and leave Expedition?
That was the end of 2015. So much shit was happening, but yeah, at the end no one was getting paid, the team or me… And the team guys were calling me up asking where their checks were, but I’m not getting any answers, I was just the middleman. And then I was told there might have to be pay cuts, and then even after that happened the guy upstairs didn’t even write the checks!
That’s when everyone quit? The mass exodus…
I actually quit before them, not many people know that. So I was technically a part owner of Expedition and Kayo for almost 20 years so things were blurry, but I just had to call it quits and I told the dude off. And it’s a real long story how it got to that, but I won’t go into it all now, that’s for another interview. So I started being an Uber driver for a bit and then I had been practising martial arts for 15 years and they always wanted me to be an instructor, but I couldn’t take the certification classes as I was skating. So I thought, ‘fuck it, nothing is stopping me now.’ So I ended up doing that and I started teaching. And also right as I left Expedition my marriage was ending (I was married for five years) so I had to move out of my house as well
Ah man, real life-changing time.
Also I had started taking photos of skating a few years prior and I was shooting the products for Kayo. I actually shot the sequence of Ryan Gallant kickflip back noseblunting Clipper.
Oh wow, I didn’t know that, sick!
I had taken a few classes at community college too about Photoshop so I got into real estate photography as well. I did some construction work with a friend and I was on Craigslist every night to try and get a Photoshop gig… I even taught some French lessons. I really had to find a way to make money… I felt like I was in survival mode again like back in ’92. I had to move out of the place I had with my wife, so all of the sudden I’m on my friend’s couch again. And I had never thought about this before but at that moment I was thinking, ‘this is how people shoot themselves.’
Ah man that’s heavy. But then I want to jump to the summer of 2017 where we met in Amsterdam and we judged the Damn Am contest there together. You seemed in good spirits as you had been back in Switzerland for a few weeks visiting family. Was that visit what made you ultimately decide to move back?
As much as a tough situation I was in at the time, I did feel quite free. I didn’t have any kids, I was divorced, I sold all my properties a while ago and I felt really good that I was only responsible for myself. Also I was teaching martial arts at that time so that really kept my head straight. So when I saw you I had just been in Switzerland and I was talking to friends to see what it would be like if I moved back; like what I would do for work and how it was like to live there and stuff. So after that whole trip I decided I was gonna move back and that’s what I did in April 2018.
After 25 years in the States…
Yeah I lived there longer than I did in Switzerland. I also had never lived on my own or had a job there in Switzerland.
So what are you doing now?
One of my friends knew this young, visionary guy who was starting an action sports/skate project at this famous ski resort in the Alps. So when I moved back I went to check it out and then the next thing you know he hired me to start as a skate coach in a few months time.
Ollie, Sacramento, 2001. Ph. Jeff Landi
Nice…
So since January 2019 I’ve been working there. There’s a skate shop there too that I help with the buying and they’re trying to make it into a Woodward type of thing. We’ve developed skate camps and I’ve been shooting photos of the kids as well as teaching skating… I had learned a lot about how to teach through my martial arts experience so I just translated that to skating. We also take the kids snowboarding; we’re getting a surf wave pool in May… The resort is called Alaia and I live in the little village there with only about 500 people. I can just cycle to work; it’s so close. I’ve been skating and snowboarding a lot too; my knee’s doing a lot better now! I’m still teaching martial arts and Tai chi on the side for a couple hours a week.
Well sounds like you landed on your feet over there!
Yeah I’m pretty happy, I feel free.
So do you think you’ve lived the American Dream?
Yeah I’ve lived it. My dream was to skate and I lived off of my passion for so long… I got to live my childhood dream: I got third place at Tampa one year, I got covers of magazines, I met my idols, I even beat my hero Christian Hosoi at a vert contest once, ha ha… I went on all these tours to all these countries, had a few pro shoes on Converse, did commercials at Universal Studios, I was on Good Morning America, Tony Hawk wrote me a letter for my green card, I was a two-time home owner, an X-Games judge, I got married, got a black belt… And I was only homeless for a few days ha ha! I mean I didn’t get rich but I feel rich in experiences and I have all these great stories and met so many great people and I feel like I got to be a part of skateboarding. What more can I ask for?
And you’re only 45…
Yeah I have a lot more life to live.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  February 28, 2023
Niels Bennett – Heroes / Helden
Filmed and edited by Chris Mulhern and Torsten Frank.
Words by Arthur Derrien (for 🔴 46).
Last night I spent close to two hours staring at a pixelated Niels drinking cans of Grolsch at his grandma’s, in Germany, and as far as this interview is concerned I think I can safely say that the call was a waste of time. What was pretty interesting though, was seeing someone you usually cannot shut up in a real-life pub scenario so paralysed by the thought of being recorded in this virtual pub setting, constantly second-guessing how what he was about to say might come across. ‘It’s like every time I answer I can see the words being printed in front of me, ready to be misinterpreted’. Although maybe it’s just that my questions were a bit shit? I thought he loved Tom Penny’s rapping!
Either way, this is why today what you’re going to get is my experience of him, working backwards from the last time we were together in London. I can’t promise you, Niels, that what I’m saying won’t be misinterpreted, nor can I even promise you, the reader, that my words will be a perfectly accurate representation of his true character, but at least by the end of it everyone will be as equipped as I am at understanding this very unusual breed of American pro skater. One that can recite every trick in
Eleventh Hour
off the top of his head, and could rock up at your local shop unannounced at any point no matter where you are, cheeky grin, backpack, skateboard and absolutely no plan whatsoever.
Backside tailslide, Bietigheim-Bissingen, Germany. Ph. Felix Adler.
Sunday 9th of October 2022
It’s time to peel Niels off the couch and head to the establishment that’ll be cooking him his first-ever Sunday Roast. Last night’s a bit of a blur but I do remember him giving his full setup to Ralph (the 11-year-old child that for some reason seems to be in The Nags Head most Friday evenings). So yeah, I guess skating is definitely off the cards. I’m having flashes of him telling
Guy
Jones
about trying to convince Rick Howard and Mike Carroll to let him send a couple of Girl boards into space by weather balloon… I also remember him discovering for the first time that certain humans do ketamine recreationally in this country, and it bringing back some traumatic memories for him. Apparently the last time he was given some for a dislocated elbow he found himself in a K-Hole repeatedly yelling Bobby Puleo’s name to a room full of confused nurses… But I digress.
It’s his last day in London. As the first pints hit the table he tells us he’s gutted to be leaving, but that he’s been in Europe for so long now that he kinda knows the time has come. Plus given the mission it’s been for him to get his hands on an emergency American passport, it’s nice to know he actually can go home now. Since Niels started travelling as a sponsored skater he’s always done everything he could to stick around for a bit in the city where his trips would end (in this case it was
The Sky Ain’t Falling
adidas tour), and/or rock up a few days early wherever they’d start. I don’t think I’ve ever met another skater so fascinated by discovering new skate scenes. And he’ll go about it in a way that’s extremely conscious of respecting their little eco-systems, usually doing a couple of drive-bys at the plaza without his board, just to observe its specific set of codes. I’ve tried to understand where this unquenchable thirst for travelling comes from… I know he mentioned his parents being backpackers, and I’m sure regularly visiting family in Germany probably played a part in this too, but also, like why? Why is he so enthralled by these unpredictable solo adventures, no matter where they take him? Because just to be clear, it’s not just the obviously enjoyable experiences he’s here for, like this delicious roast we’re about to session the sun, it’s all of it. When he laughs about how you’ve got to love the shitty times too, and how there’s nothing quite like being sat on your skateboard in the rain unsure about where to go from there, I honestly think he means it. Or at least you’d better hope so given what comes later in this story.
Pole-jam frontside boardslide past the curb, London. Ph: Alex Pires.
Chris Jones, Kyron Davis and a few others join throughout the day and are greeted by Niels telling them how much of a fan of their work he is. It’s pretty endearing; he’s a massive skate nerd. He’s watched and remembers anything worth watching, and makes educated decisions on what he’s going to film accordingly. If it seems like he always manages to come up with the trick for the spot, it’s because he already has the back catalogue of what’s been done there downloaded in his head. His
move
at the Royal Albert Hall spot is the ultimate example for me, especially in wider the context of Mark Suciu – a skater Internet neeks rinsed Niels for being too similar to when his footage first started doing the rounds – saying in some Jenkem thing that backside 5-0 back 180 wasn’t a ‘good trick’.
Bluntslide to fakie, Stuttgart. Ph: Fabian Reichenbach.
By about a quarter to five enough beverages have been consumed for everyone to collectively give in to the age-old boozy Sunday illusion that weekends in fact do not actually need to end, and just when we start joking about how we all plan on staying right here doing exactly what we’re currently doing for all eternity, Niels pipes up and says: ‘yeah maybe I’ll just go to Route One in the morning’. Confused as to why anyone would want to go to Route One in Covent Garden at any time of the day I press him on the matter, and it turns out that this emergency passport that he’d so desperately needed to get a hold of, had been left there for safe-keeping, because right after getting it done he’d gone for beers in that zone with it still on him. So just to be recap, we’re in a situation where Niels is already a bit pissed, and the one precious document he needs to fly home after weeks and weeks of being on the road is nicely sat in the safe of a shop that’s located on the other side of London, and which of course was closing in just over an hour. Oh, and obviously his flight the next day was way too early for him to stand a chance of catching it if he was to do the mission in the morning, that goes without saying. We alert him of how imminently he’s about to massively blow it, and after a bit more angst- inducing hesitation, we finally say our goodbyes, and off he goes, visibly devastated by the thought of not being ‘allowed’ to stay for just one more pint.
The next time I’d hear from him would be three days later with a text saying that it was a ‘crazy story’ but that yeah, he’d just about made it home in one piece. After a bit of digging around it transpired that after retrieving this emergency passport, rather than heading back to the skate house where he was staying in east London to pack, he’d gone for a few at a pub around the corner from the shop where he knew a skater worked behind the bar, a few turned into quite a few, and he ended up falling asleep not too far from it… And getting his phone and wallet robbed. Never a dull moment.
Fakie 5-0, Stuttgart. Ph: Fabian Reichenbach.
Now just to be clear, the purpose of me telling this story is not to point fingers at his mashman tendencies, as I wouldn’t have a leg to stand on. Instead, I’d like to praise the resilience needed to not only come back from that and make it to the airport on time (I’m lost without my phone the second I cross the Thames and I live in London), but also the drive you’d need to have to sort your shit out as soon as you get home, and almost instantly start thinking about the next trip. So, it’s not just ‘why?’, it’s also ‘how?’. But as confusing as I may find his ways, the one thing I have learnt is that you don’t need to understand him to enjoy him. He might convince you that doing a shot of rum before going down to breakfast is a good idea on a skate trip, which it definitely isn’t when you’ve barely slept and you have to have normal adult conversations with sober people who just want to enjoy their croissants, but then he also might, without saying a word, get up and pay the bill for a table full of people he’s essentially just met, simply because of how grateful he is to have been invited to a birthday dinner in a town which isn’t his own. I think his explanation for that last one was something along the lines of ‘I don’t know I just had a really nice evening…’ As I said, never a dull moment. And I’m not going to pretend it’s always easy to keep up with, but I guarantee you’ll miss him the second he’s gone.
Switch 50-50 transfer, Manhattan. Ph: Sam McKenna.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 6, 2019
Pushing Boarders: Lucy Adams & Ryan Lay Interview
Pushing Boarders 2019, at Bryggerietts Gymnasium in Malmö. Ph. Norma Ibarra
Sexism, mental health, toxic masculinity, skate NGOs, equal pay, skate-friendly cities, allyship and more were just some of the topics discussed at this year’s Pushing Boarders conference in Malmö. Pushing Boarders, for those that don’t know, is an annual conference bringing together academics, activists, city planners, pro skateboarders, skate charity workers and others with the aim of discussing the current issues in skateboarding (many that are often not addressed). This year’s conference was in the middle of August and just after we caught up with Lucy Adams and Ryan Lay (both panelists this year) for their take on the talks, topics and their general impressions on the whole thing. So with the release of the
talks online
today we thought it was the perfect time to drop this interview.
Interview by Will Harmon
What were your favourite moments or panels from the
Pushing Boarders
talks last week?
Lucy Adams: I really enjoyed the panel with
Esther (Sayers)
and Indi (Indigo Willing).
The University of Skate: Support your Local Academic panel…
LA: Yeah. I also liked the panel Rick McCrank chaired (
Skate & Educate: From Classrooms to Community
). Those two, for me, everyone in them spoke really well and I was really interested in the points they brought up.
Do you remember anything in particular they talked about that moved you?
LA: I’ve met Esther lots of times and we’ve talked, and I’ve always found her really interesting and I know she’s a lecturer, but we’ve never spoken about it, we’ve just spoken about skating. But during her talk I was just mesmerised about what she was talking about in terms of teaching and learning. And I just thought, ‘wow, she sounds like she knows what she’s doing’.
Ryan Lay: ‘
The Revolution will not be Patronised
’ was far and away the best panel. It was really dynamic, really conversational and it kind of touched on a lot of important issues in women’s skateboarding… It was basically everything I would have hoped for, which is like a lot of interesting conversations around the competition between women and then also only viewing women’s skateboarding through the lens of competition – which I’ve long found to be problematic. There’s kind of this bind,
Candy (Jacobs)
spoke to this a little bit, it’s like: they can only make it by skating contests, but then by only skating contests they get pushed out of the mainstream of street skating and they’re viewed as contest skaters. I’ve heard
Breana (Geering)
and
Lil Tubsy
(Una Farrar) also echo those same sentiments. It’s just super frustrating, it’s like, ‘we don’t want to skate contests but it’s the only way to make money.’ And you know we can applaud equity in terms of pay with contests, like
Mimi (Knoop)
talked about, but then also maybe we shouldn’t focus our energy into contests. Competitions are inherently toxic you know…
Yeah I remember there was talk of the women boycotting some of these contests because the prize purse wasn’t equal, but at the same time, for some of the younger girls these comps were a good opportunity so they didn’t know whether to take away this opportunity, or what, etc.
LA: Yeah I think I brought that up and it was around a comp we have in the UK called NASS. They treated us really, really badly for years now and a couple of times I mentioned to certain people ‘we shouldn’t bother going; we shouldn’t go. It’s really not good. We either have our comp at 9am or we’ve had it once at midnight before…’
Wow…
LA: Yeah and it’s just silly and no one knows what’s going on until we’re actually there as there’s never any information about it published beforehand… Anyways, this year I was really thinking, like Helena (Long), if I spoke to her, she would be in on it with me, she wouldn’t bother going. And then I could probably talk to someone else and ‘ah yeah we won’t go either…’, but then you’ve got little Lola and little Roxy and all these girls that are getting invited and going, ‘I’ve been invited to NASS! I could win £800!’ and it’s like ‘aww’; that’s their highlight. They’re only nine, ten, 11… I don’t know.
I don’t know what the solution is then…
LA: Well
Amber (Edmondson)
brought up something that I literally haven’t even contemplated and thought to myself like, ‘wow, you must be mad’, but Amber said: it’s not just the women that shouldn’t show up, there could be an ally in the men’s comp like, ‘you know what, we don’t need to show up either if you’re not going to treat them very well.’ Because I’ve heard Ben Powell, CJ (Chris Johnson) and (Marc) Churchill on the mic go: ‘it’s fucking outrageous what we (men) do to you lot here; I really hate it,’ but they still do it.
RL: I think it’s more interesting to me too just how much labour you have to put in to thinking about contests, like what a big part it is for your (women’s) careers. I think this came up in one of the questions about like the gender binary with contests, which is really interesting, because a lot of my friends who are queer and/or trans skaters, like they want everything to be decentralised. They don’t believe in hierarchies; so they don’t want to participate in competitions in general. So it’s nice to hear a pushback… It would just be great if you Lucy and Candy could just focus on doing street skateboarding and fleshing out what is possible for you in terms of skateboarding without having to focus contests because I’m afforded the ability to have to never skate in contests, because I suck at them, because I’m able to make money riding for teams. And they don’t really need me to skate contest at all you know? If anything it’s deterred a little bit. But that panel was phenomenal. It was really, really great…
One of the reasons I chose to speak to both of you is that both of you are involved with projects relating to skateboarding outside of your duties as professional skateboarders. What was the catalyst to pursue these other endeavours in addition to your pro skate careers?
LA: I feel like for me it’s always been by default; it’s never really been a choice. I kind of either get thrust into this position or it’s a time and a place thing and or I’ve always felt like, ‘Why does it have to be me?’
Like: ‘Can’t someone else take on these responsibiliities?!’
LA: Yeah it’s a position I just find myself in; I don’t go looking for it. I mean I’ve done a couple of things where like ‘all right, I want to do this,’ which was a couple of events for women and girl’s skateboarding, but I would really like to have the time to just skate and as Ryan said earlier, I’d love to be able to focus on my skateboarding and doing the bits of it that I want to do, but then I end up not always doing that.
Lucy Adams wallrides at TBS in Malmö. Ph. Norma Ibarra
And Ryan why did you start doing
Skate After School
and getting involved with all these skate charities?
RL: I just wanted an outlet outside of… Being a professional skater is all about marketing, it’s quite self-obsessed or self-absorbed and so I think I wanted to get away from that and also it was a way to rejuvenate some of the stoke that like sometimes get beaten out of you by being in the industry for too long. Just like going through the cycles of a video part, or a new thing, and riding for companies and then the companies go out of business, or they kick you off… And so skateboarding can feel kind of cheap. It has a cheapening effect over time and… You know the other thing is that I felt frustrated with the current political climate and skateboarding was just the best vessel to try and create some sort of community. If I were interested in another sport maybe I would do that, but it was like, ‘well we have all these resources and I built all these relationships with people, so it’s kind of easy to tie skateboarding in.’ And I felt like I met so many people at the conference that had that same kind of feeling, which is like, ‘look skateboarding changed my life and I recognise that my neighbourhood, this country, this continent, whatever, we have these major systemic issues so I’m going to try and use the thing that I know and love to attack those issues or create some sort of change.
Looking around at Pushing Boarders I’d say less than a dozen out of the 300-400 people that attended were professional skateboarders. Do you think more pro skaters should attend Pushing Boarders?
LA: Yeah, it was just so eye opening; there was so much to learn all the time. I think especially the younger pros haven’t been around long enough to know all that history… What’s happened? I don’t think there’s a real effort to learn about that anymore.
I thought it was nice to have all these skateboarders together, but not for some branded event, contest, demo or product release. It was a lot of like-minded people together discussing skateboarding and talking about the issues around it and I think a lot of good can come from that.
LA: Definitely, and for me, I don’t drink or enjoy parties or things like that, but all I want to do is talk about skateboarding. But usually I don’t have the time, as I have to be in bed, to get up early, so I don’t like to talk to drunk people out at night about skateboarding. Also at the skatepark, I want to skate, I’m a real high energy skater and I don’t want people stopping me, so being in that environment (at Pushing Boarders) and being able to talk about skating all the time… It was really good.
RL: I mean it’s like why not add a little depth to your practice? I’m probably just as big a skate nerd as you Will, and I can’t speak to you Lucy, but I like having conversations about the minutia of skate tricks and parts, and whatever, pants and ridiculous shit… There’s a lot of value in examining the depth that’s there also and plus I think in terms of the industry changes, people would be wise to start to address some of these big issues because, as noted from some of the conflicts at the conference, there’s these kind of major shifts that are happening in our culture and skateboarding is not immune to those shifts. And I think the big companies have been smart in that they’ve approached issues of equity and inclusion to try to address them and get ahead of those issues, but I think a lot of people are going to really be blindsided because there are a lot of companies like
Unity
and a handful of other brands that are building on the desire out there for people who want something that looks a little different or speaks to them in a different language. So why not try to improve yourself or improve the companies you work for? You might as well try to work and make things a little better and a little more equitable.
So on that note, you think more skate industry people should come to PB? What could they learn?
LA: Absolutely. So in any other field, say like my job as a data analyst, I don’t really want that as a career, but if I did, I would be learning about it and going on training courses and I’d go to conferences to learn more about the profession to get better at it, to know everything and be an expert. So absolutely, it’s a no-brainer: of course they should go.
RL: We’ve run Skate After School for like nine years and I’ve just seen the trajectory of like
SkatePal
and other aid organisations and they’re so much cooler now in the last few years, like skate orgs in general, because I feel like people rightfully see political catastrophe coming to them, or all around them, so they’re looking to skate organisations or just having this feeling like, ‘I should do something about it’ or ‘I want to care now’. I feel like ten years ago, for a lot of people, at least in the US, the sentiment was: ‘I just want to focus on skating’. And now I hear a lot of people who, similar to me, they care about the world around them, they care about who their president is, they care about politics, they care about what’s happening in their community and so I feel like the work of community building is much more respected than it ever has been and I feel like that’s only going to increase. It’s followed the trajectory, both in the UK and the US, of kind of the collapse of what we felt were venerable political institutions – the fabric of our lives around us you know?
I agree. With Brexit, Trump getting elected, etc., I definitely feel a greater sense of ‘I need to do more. I need to make an effort’ and it puts you in action.
RL: Exactly. Things weren’t all right before that, but I definitely get the feeling that Pushing Boarders and the culture around that is going to continue to grow. We’ve gotten a lot of feedback from our podcast (
Vent City
) as well from so many people who are like, ‘this is great!’ The Nine Club is awesome because it’s a historical project where you get these origin stories, but people want to hear… They want a little more depth around the conversation.
Ryan Lay with (there should be a shorter name for this trick) a switch backside 180 to nosegrind turning back out to switch in Los Angeles. Ph. Kyle Seidler
Yes and I think you guys do a good job of that. OK, one of the panellists, Paul O’Connor, a professor from Hong Kong, said that ‘skateboarding is no longer a sub-culture, it’s a culture.’ Do you agree or disagree with that?
RL: I missed Paul’s panel because I was doing interviews; I’ll have to watch it later, but I’m familiar with his work. But yes, I definitely feel that skateboarding has entered the mainstream and when you see the rollerblader at the skatepark, I look at that guy and I’m like, ‘you’re what skateboarders were 15 years ago’ ha ha…
…the rollerblader is core!
(Everyone laughs)
RL: For sure they are! The pack of three rollerbladers that go and do handrails around town… Those guys are badass now (laughs). Someone posted this thought that has always stuck with me, I can’t even remember who it was, but they were saying for years skateboarding was this refuge because it was a sub-culture for all the weird kids you know? They kind of felt like they didn’t belong in traditional sports and they were interested in weird music and stuff like that, but now you have those kids and their access to skateboarding is like Nyjah (Huston) and they go: ‘Ah I don’t want to skate; that’s what jocks do,’ you know? So they’re going to go do weird art projects and music and stuff. I definitely feel like skateboarding is really broad now, like it kind of includes everything. There’s ranges of it that aren’t so cultural and there’s countercultural and then there’s fully mainstream obviously.
For our generation skateboarding has been pretty much an activity for outcasts and we had to constantly deal with people making fun of us for skating, picking on our clothes, etc. but we persevered. I feel like it kind of shaped us as human beings dealing with all that. People didn’t understand us, but that was fine because we were determined to carry on with what we loved doing. Now with skateboarding being so mainstream, do you think it will change a bit of its soul? Do you get what I’m trying to say?
RL: Yeah John Dahlquist spoke about this on our panel, but it’s been institutionalised. That’s the danger of all this Olympics and skateboarding in schools but I think that’s my big mission, and a lot of other people’s mission is like: ‘How can we take the money from these big multinational corporations or the money that’s coming in from the Olympics, but not totally sanitise and sterilise the thing that we love?’ We have to look at this radical counterculture that we feel is inherent to skating so part of that has to be a critique of private property… You know there were some interesting panels on that from Luke (Cianciotto) and Dwayne (Dixon) talked about the criminality of skateboarding and how inherent it is to that and I definitely agree with that. Skateboarding has to have that edge or else it’s just a thing that is coached in school and has absolutely no soul.
Yeah I agree…
RL: And that’s something that a lot of people, myself included, who run more formal programs we try to keep that in mind, because we are institutionalising skating to some extent but we are trying to keep it formless and organic so that the kids can learn skateboarding the same ways we felt like we learned it.
But also the kids can pursue skateboarding the way they want to… They might just want to skate at the skatepark on the weekends or they might want to go to private property and try to get tricks before the security guard comes out, but you leave it up to them. Don’t tell them ‘this way’s better or that’s way is better’; let them decide.
RL: The organisations and the skateparks create more space for people to access the sport and the hope is that you access it and then there is culture and media behind it that can push them in different directions where, yeah you might learn how to skate at an afterschool program or at the skatepark, but then you take that energy and you start exploring the city with your friends. And figuring out what skate culture is in general…
OK one of the themes for this Pushing Boarders conference was mental health. Do you think the skate industry should take a bit more responsibility for their sponsored riders’ mental health? What can we do to help other skateboarders with mental health issues?
RL: I have some thoughts on that… I feel like skateboarding, like a lot of other industries, relies mostly on contract labour… It’s like the gig economy has come to skateboarding. So people’s careers have really sharp arcs sometimes and companies will use riders to bolster their company and then, we’ve seen this time and time again, they kind of just get hung out to dry because they’re too difficult to work with or they start having mental health issues… I don’t know, I definitely feel like if you want to call skateboarders workers we’re really itemised and isolated. Obviously we’re considered private contractors in the States so we don’t get health insurance so that’s another big part of that. More broadly there’s just no resources: no HR department, no physical therapy, definitely no mental health services… So there’s that and the more obvious kind of glorification of partying, like the party lifestyle, which companies for decades have used to sell products to kids, which is bad for all sorts of reasons. But probably the worst part about all of that is that it just burns people out. You have really unstructured lifestyles, they’re so untethered from reality and then you’ve got companies that are glorifying that intentionally and marketing it and then obviously they crash and burn and are left hung out to dry.
Yeah it’s been going on for a long time.
RL: I wish that companies in general, not just in skateboarding, should really take into account how isolated their workers are… I don’t know; it’s interesting because it’s all sold to us like, ‘we’re a team!’ but we’re not really. I mean ‘you’re a team with the people you work with in your office, but I don’t work in an office so I’m not really part of the team.’ I think an on-boarding and off-boarding process would be really helpful. They have that in minor league baseball here and like the major league sports as well. Like, ‘this is what to expect, this is how untethered your life is going to be, this is how you pay your taxes, and also this is going to come in two to ten years so you really need to prepare for it and think about your injuries, your mental health, your relationships and start to balance those things.’ So many kids I see do this thing where they basically go, ‘oh I got sponsored. Finally this team manager is hooking me up with stuff. I’m going to drop out of college and quit my job.’ And I’m like ‘you don’t need to do that! You are not doing a 40-hour a week job; focus on skateboarding and try and build your career, but you can also go to school or work on what’s next,’ and that’s a trap I’ve fallen victim to too.
Lucy Adams, gap ollie in Nepal. Ph. Rich West
I think it’s one of the biggest misconceptions that you don’t have time to skate when you’re at university. There’s loads of time and there are big summer breaks too, which is when a lot of skate tours happen.
LA: Yeah, that’s correct.
After hearing all the talks at PB, did either of you get ideas for new possible panels or topics to be discussed next year, if there is another Pushing Boarders?
LA: For me, as I’m involved in that Olympic side of things from a GB perspective, and next year is obviously it hits the fan, so ultimately it (skateboarding in the Olympics) will be interesting in one way, shape or form for sure I think. It would be interesting to hear different perspectives on that. I was part of a small panel at the Innoskate event that piggybacked onto SLS London. Josh (Friedberg) chaired it and there was a lady there from the Mayor’s office in London and there was a member of the IOC (International Olympic Committee) and we got into a little bit of it, but didn’t talk very in depth about it. So I think it would be interesting to possibly do that next year.
Yeah especially if Pushing Boarders comes before the Olympics.
LA: The Tokyo Olympics start July 24th so PB would have to be a bit earlier next year to make this happen.
RL: I just did the PB feedback for so it’s kind of fresh in my mind. I think the really interesting thing that I’ve been thinking a lot about lately is alternative funding models to get away from traditional advertising and then also structuring companies in a different way. Like what kind of possibilities are there to structure companies to move away from the traditional for-profit companies that we have currently, which we just went over – that don’t really take care of their riders…
Yeah…
RL: And not only the riders, the people who work for the company too. I think that would be an interesting conversation, like what funding models are out there? Whether it’s like worker-owned skate companies or unionisation in skateboarding, which there’s been a little conversation around that recently and I’m pretty sceptical of it, but I think it’s an interesting conversation. They tried to touch a little on the advertising model in the journalism panel, but again, they need to be explicit panels where you talk about one subject because there were all sorts of other avenues that sort of jumped into that conversation and they need to be able to expand a lot.
On one panel there was a guy from the city who said ‘I’m going to play the devil’s advocate here,’ and I thought that was interesting. I sometimes thought a few of the panels had too many people agreeing with each other and being on the same page. I’m not saying there should have been conflict, but it might be nice to have some people with different viewpoints so there can be a discussion. Does that make sense?
RL: I completely agree. Also I think having people who aren’t members of an identity group speaking about their experience is really helpful. I think it would have been great if there was a panel on race, but in addition to that, including non-women on the women’s panel and like straight skaters on the ‘Rage Against the Gaze’ panel, which could have been cool because you know you can speak to the ways which you maybe have been complicit in not being an ally… You know as a professional skateboarder I didn’t get on a team with a women until I rode for Welcome with Nora (Vasconcellos) and that was when I was like 26 years old. I watched her kind of go from being a nobody to having this crazy career arc, but it’s like you know I didn’t ever think about that because I didn’t grow up skating with women, ever. It was almost like a social… We were just segregated you know? It doesn’t need to be me, but I think that that’s really helpful to have those kind of painful conversations where you have to talk about that stuff otherwise you have… It doesn’t need to be argumentation, but I think that could be really helpful, because a lot of times it’s like you talk about the emotional labour that befalls people that have to constantly be speaking about their identity. I mean we don’t ask Lucy what it’s like for her filming a video part, we ask her what it’s like being a women in a skatepark; I don’t get asked those questions. No one cares about about my identity as like a straight white guy. I don’t know, I think that would be really cool to mix it up and get a little more conversation I guess.
LA: Yeah I agree.
For you each of you, what are the biggest takeaways from this past Pushing Boarders? How are you feeling about the whole thing?
LA: I think before I was so nervous, just because of the panel I was featured in, so I hadn’t thought about it. So at the London one (last year) I went in all day on that Saturday and I sat with Stu (Smith, of Lovenskate) and we left there buzzing. Like ‘oh my god this has been so good all day just listening about skateboarding and people talking about it’ and then we talked about it. I kind of forgot how good that that was because I had to do this and that (as I was chairing a panel this year) and think about all these people and I wanted them all to feel happy. So once it started to take place I was reading a little program before things were going on and I was like, ‘oh yeah this and this and that; it’s gonna be so interesting today! Oh I’ve met her; I’ve seen him…’ and the getting to talk to those people afterwards… There wasn’t like a particular thing, just the fact that it kept happening for days: it was great. And then as people said, those conversations just continued until late in the evening and you kind of just didn’t want to go to bed.
I know when the bar closed you didn’t want to go back (to the hotel) because you were having these great conversations with people you’d just met or people you don’t get to see too often. Like, ‘I want this to go on longer!’
LA: Yeah you’d be speaking to people in the lift, then you’d get out of the lift and we’d speak to people by the lift! It just kept going on and on.
What about for you Ryan?
RL: When I was there I just felt an incredible amount of vulnerability and humility and in the best way. I don’t know, we have our program in Arizona and no one gives a fuck about Arizona, it’s not a cool place, I love it, but it just meant so much that like… I mean I felt like a lot of people are doing really important work in isolated places and it’s just so cool to go there and see all these people who really give a shit that are working with whatever resources they have to create change. I don’t know, you feel empowered because there are so many other people who are doing the same type of work that you are. So many I met, who had like been to Palestine or volunteered with SkatePal who ended up starting their own organisations or it changed their life… Just seeing the interconnectedness of it all. We had people who I met who had come to Pushing Boarders because of the podcast (Vent City).
Ryan Lay, ollie in Torremolinos, Spain. Ph. Clement Le Gall
How flattering!
RL: That was the impetus for us all going as well you know! I feel like with a lot of people doing projects you are so buried in your work you start to get worried or paranoid like: ‘Am I even making a difference? Am I even changing anything?’ You know you can look at the raw numbers and be like, ‘what does this even mean?’ but the power to inspire people, and I speak from personal experience because I got to speak to some of my mentors there as well:
Ocean Howell
and Oliver (Percovich) from
Skateistan
. They’re people I look up to and then (I met) people that are younger than me that I now look up to like the people who are doing
Free Movement
. I was so blown away by their whole story… I don’t know that for me was the big takeaway. We’re so much stronger together and it’s really cool to see people firing on all pistons: like academics, skateboarders, people running skate orgs, journalists and it’s kind of like everyone has a common vision. And it’s really cool because a lot of times you get beat down, like I do, when people are like: ‘Can we just like stick to the skating?’ It’s like, ‘skating is cool’, but it’s the coolest when it’s a vehicle for change and community.
Yeah it makes skating that much better.
RL: Yeah it’s not cool in a bubble; it’s great and powerful because we have all these shared cultural references you know? You got to use that for something. I’m in bed sick right now, but I’m still so inspired by it all and motivated and I’m excited to continue the conversations that we had there. As everyone experienced it was quite emotional… There were several moments of crying. Multiple people in the room were brought to tears, like Theo’s speech at the end. There were some conflicts and some tension and you that might not really come across from just watching the videos. There was so much energy there in the room and especially in the in-betweens of talks… Like you said, it’s the conversations… Like I had a conversation drunk with Esther at two in the morning that I’m still kind of thinking about. That’s the powerful thing… The panels itself, they’re great, but it’s really about the conversations they lead to. Again like at 1:30 in the morning in an elevator with someone you just met an hour ago.
LA: Yeah totally!
Yeah it was one of the best things for me. It was so much to pack in last year in London. It was too much to talk about everything in a day or two… So this year they did a great job of not too many panels each day and couple that with skating in the afternoon… I mean shame about the weather, but you can still get some skating in.
RL: I was kind of glad when it was raining when we had panels because I didn’t want to feel bad for not going skating.
LA: Yeah sometimes I felt like that. It was much better the way it was structured this year so next year, if it happens, I would definitely keep it in that looser format where it’s not so intense. Also give everybody all the time to do all that informal stuff…
I think that’s so valuable: having time for those discussions afterwards.
LA: Yeah as you said right at the beginning, it’s not a brand thing; it’s not somewhere giving away free beer… It was just innocent. It was really nice.
Thank you guys for doing this…
RL: Yeah thanks for the opportunity.
LA: Thank you very much!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 15, 2024
Childhood lasts a lifetime – Skateboarding as a form of self-harm: A conversation with John Rattray
BACKSIDE NOSEBLUNT, SYDNEY, 2002. PH: MIKE O’MEALLY.
John’s skateboarding needs little introduction and his ascendance to international acclaim from the improbable origins of Aberdeen, Scotland sounds like a classic formula for skateboard lore. Carving a skateboard career out of the Granite City is as tough as it sounds, and this conversation could quite easily have been a retrospective look at a transatlantic career, which developed from his indelible style on a board.
Rather than sticking to that brief, John proposed that, instead, we begin with a single statement and take
it from there. John’s thought-provoking statement provides the basis of our chat and, drawing on his own reflections on the interplay between skateboarding and childhood experiences, he explores the deeper meanings behind it. John explains how his knowledge of mental health and neurobiology has helped him to develop his own understanding of how luck, pain, skateboarding and change might have converged to influence his adult life.
Interview by Alex Irvine
‘Childhood lasts a lifetime – Skateboarding as a form of self-harm’… To me there’s a kind of seriousness and a playfulness in that statement. Is that true, do you think?
John Rattray: I heard the statement ‘childhood lasts a lifetime’ from somebody that works for an organisation called Prevent Child Abuse America. Their mission is, more or less, to try and reduce childhood adversity and trauma for kids so that they have better health outcomes long-term.
If you study psychology, you’ve likely heard about the adverse childhood experience study. What I’ve been learning about lately is some of the neurobiology that’s being layered on top of that in the last decade or so. It gives us an idea of like, okay, here’s what we saw sociologically with the adverse experience study, now, here’s the neurobiology that shows us why the chance of negative health outcomes increases for those of us who experienced more adverse shit when we were young. So, the idea of ‘childhood lasts a lifetime’ is the idea that the trauma or extreme prolonged, unpredictable stress that we experience when we’re young, impacts our brains and nervous systems as they’re growing and developing.
Those experiences stay with us because the human brain and nervous system is not a computer, it’s a biological system [like a tree] and it grows, and then those branches that are inside us from when we were a kid are still there when we’re a grown-up, and they’re still responding based on what we experienced when we were developing as a kid.
That’s the idea in ‘childhood lasts a lifetime’ for me. It’s been really helpful to understand that, as somebody that experiences maybe outsized anxiety responses as an adult. And who grew up with an alcoholic in the household (my dad),
who died when I was 13. That was chaos, culminating in catastrophe.
Understanding that as you’re growing up your brain and nervous system’s developing in response to the en-
vironment you’re in. It’s learning to predict what type of world we should expect to encounter in the future. And if we don’t learn about these mechanisms, then these mechanisms—essentially our stress response—will kind of run the show to a certain extent when you’re an adult. This can increase the likelihood of poor mental health outcomes. That’s the idea there.
BOARDSLIDE, SAN DIEGO, 2008. PH: PERCY DEAN.
Was skateboarding on your mind when the ‘childhood lasts a lifetime’ statement was formed as a topic of conversation for this magazine?
No. But now that we’re talking about it, and now that we just parsed out that it’s negative childhood experience, yes, that’s what we all think about because of ACEs (adverse childhood experiences) but, also, the positive stuff that happened to you lasts a lifetime. Protective factors. Those are there too.
Some of those positive things with skating are this sense that I’m a part of something bigger than myself and I’m valued and, you know, part of a crew. I now have friends all around the world that I can pick up the phone or go to a city and meet up with and we have that common experience, that it’s us, together versus the world. That’s all in there subconsciously, imprinted in the depths of our brains automatic systems that help us form our worldview. Part of my default worldview became that I belong to something. Skateboarding was that for me. Being a part of that community, for sure helped develop my resilience; and helped me get through.
And we did that as kids without even realising we were doing it. We naturally do that. And if you’re lucky, then you find a good, healthy crew of supportive creatives. That was lucky for us, I think. That’s the positive part that helped me become more resilient and counteract the catastrophizing that my brain has a tendency to get into. Putting that together has been really helpful, like, ‘Oh! My brain is having a natural response to what it experienced when I was a kid’. Then, as human beings, we need to feel part of a trusted community. We need to feel like we’re valued by some group. That’s how we evolved. And skating offered that, without me even realising it.
FRONTSIDE BLUNTSLIDE, LONDON, 1998. PH: WIG WORLAND.
So, skateboarding [might serve] as a potential alleviation of that difficulty. I started to think about the idea of belonging, and how escaping from difficult situations can inadvertently result in a sense of communal belonging supporting you in another way.
Yes, the idea of escaping gets talked about a lot. An analogy I think about sometimes is when I did my ACL. I tore it by putting too much stress on the ligament and the ligament broke. The same principle applies to the nervous system. Because it’s a physical system too. So that idea of escaping is really removing yourself from a stressful environment. And then what you’re finding in skating is two-fold.
The act itself is rhythmic and can help us regulate emotionally just by doing it, and then the connection to community,
that’s the next part of the puzzle – what you need to be emotionally healthy.
The narrative around ‘belonging’ in skateboarding is well-trodden ground, isn’t it? You know, the ‘we’re one big family’ kind of idea has been written about a lot…
And it can become hackneyed or clichéd. I like to dig in and [think] why is that? We evolved as human beings to need to be part of a group, because to be not part of a group is existentially threatening.
You can die in the wilderness. Alone. We work together. I’ve said this a few times: we did not evolve as lone wolves, and neither did wolves.
BACKSIDE DISASTER, ABERDEEN, 2001. PH: OLIVER BARTON.
The subculture of skateboarding provides some belonging, but within that, there’s also a kind of separation from society as well. I don’t know if you get that same tightness or bond in other social groups because skateboarding is smaller than other social groups, or maybe because it’s ‘other’ and then this changes things…
I don’t know, I think skating is different in terms of the extent or lack of formal structure around it. It’s like, us together, figuring out what we want skating to be, versus the world.
But I think you can get that same sense of belonging with anything, with the little football team that you’re part of, or just going and playing tennis with somebody, as long as it’s not a toxic environment there too. That’s another piece of the puzzle. Skating is a bit of a dice roll because it’s kind of the kids doing their own thing. It definitely wasn’t always healthy growing up with the amount of cider and weed and all the rest of it that was floating around.
I do think skating is interesting because it does have this multi-generational thing, especially nowadays, there’s like older skaters that’ve been through it and hopefully come through it in a prosocial way and have their heads switched on that are looking after things to a certain extent. Maybe I’m dreaming though.
I also thought, maybe as another layer on top of that – maybe where I thought the playfulness was – is that, as a retired pro skateboarder [the idea] that childhood lasts a lifetime, that skateboarding is like a childlike thing to do. Maybe you’ve experienced people saying ‘isn’t that for kids?’ or ‘aren’t you a bit old for that kind of thing?’
I don’t know that people overtly say that out loud… But I do sense that there is some bias against skating, you know. I imagine it’s because people can’t help but think of it as a childish thing. And you could take that as insulting at first, but then you remind yourself, as an adult, retaining that childish nature is so important, that playful, curious, creative nature is so important to health and to being a good or innovative contributor to whatever endeavour [you undertake].
We need to be curious and playful, and skating sets us up with that. If we take the lessons of skating and think through them like that and apply them, it’s such a good lesson to take with us from childhood all the way through life. Whether we keep skating or not. To diminish it and to think it’s not valuable I think makes… It makes society wrong and we’re right. Ha ha!
FRONTSIDE MELON, BERKELEY, 2000. PH. WIG WORLAND.
I think that’s the nail on the head. So we’ve come from this kind of quite bleak seeming statement to something else too. Obviously, there’s hope in there knowing that you can change, right?
Yeah, right there. The whole big takeaway of everything I’ve been reading about over the last few years is, the brain can change. And so, in the manner that it can change to a point where you’re in a really bad place, the fact it can change means it can also change to get you back to a good place. It’s a constant evolution and growth that’s happening, like literal branches, you know, neural pathways and all the rest of it. It’s a growth process. But the brain grows according to the environ-ment it’s in, according to the stimulus it receives. So, we can intentionally guide ourselves in positive ways… And we can be more intentional when we have a reasonable understanding of how it works. Which we do.
Absolutely. I think there’s kind of a momentum when you’re skateboarding and you’re younger. It’s just because you’re so engrossed in it, everything’s just happening. When do you think you were able to gain enough perspective to realise that it had had a positive impact in other aspects of your life?
I mean, for me, probably in my 30s and 40s, as I had to transition out of being a pro skater, into life after skate-boarding and find a different way to make a living. I’ve thought about this a lot, like all the stuff that I’ve been learning about and trying to put out there in the world lately is all the developmental neurobiology stuff—how our brains develop over the course of our lives.
And then the in-the-moment neurobiology stuff – how does your brain process information right now? And then, how is that affected by the stuff in the past?
And then, what developmental stages are you at throughout the course of your adolescence, your early adult life and ongoing?
You kind of get this sense that you’re getting something amazing from skating as a kid, as a youth, and then as a young adult. But when you learn about neurodevelopment… [that] it develops in sequence. So, your brain stem develops, then your limbic system and your social attachments develop, and then your cortex develops. And if you’ve read anything about this, it’s not until your mid-twenties, roughly, that they say your cortex is more mature, it continues to grow and change, but it’s the last part to develop as you grow up. So, how useful a lot of this develop-mental stuff is for somebody that’s 18…
I’m not sure because there’s still years of cognitive development to happen before you can look back. You don’t have the time; you’ve not lived it yet. That said, we can be affected by experiences all the way from in-utero through when we’re a baby and on, so perhaps the brain development stuff is helpful to understand at any point in life really. I hope so because it’s super interesting and I’ve found it super helpful.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Photo: Wig Worland (@wigworland)
I’m wondering about your idea of skateboarding as self-harm. Where do you think that comes in?
I think that my dad dying pushed me, because our natural response to really emotionally painful things is to try and
get away from them. So, skating and the physical pain of learning to skate was my escape. And my layman’s understanding
of what drives self-harming behaviours is that that’s the pathway – replacing emotional pain with some physical pain. So, it’s like a surrogate in that sense.
You have to push yourself pretty hard to get to where I got. I mean – just to self-promote – you don’t learn to skate handrails without really not being too bothered about putting yourself in the way of physical harm. You know, you have to push yourself and you also have to manage your stress response to get there. So that’s the double-edged sword thing again, of putting yourself in danger, but you’re also learning to regulate yourself.
Do you think there was a control element to that for you? In testing your mettle?
Yeah, I think so, and I think when you’re young, you’re an adolescent, or a kid, I don’t know that you necessarily are consciously saying, like, ‘I am living in a situation where there’s a lot of uncontrollable, unpredictable stress, and therefore I want to go and have this situation where I’m in control of the risks I take.’… It’s more like, you’re driven and you find this thing called skating that gives you something that you’re not getting at home, you know, or provides you some control that you’re not getting at home—or didn’t get at an important time when you needed it. But the feeling that you get, of being in control, subconscious, subcortically or whatever we want to call it. That’s one of the things skating offers for sure, that ability to be in control of the risks you’re putting yourself into.
BACKSIDE TAILSLIDE, SYDNEY, 2002. PH: MIKE O’MEALLY.
I think there’s quite a bit of difference in how self-harm is understood generally, right? I think most people think of cutting. It goes way beyond that, obviously, but I think that’s like the most common thing that people’s minds jump to. I understand it as people trying to regulate emotions or trying to, trying to feel something or trying to feel less of something. I wonder about skate-boarding, it’s quite a different thing, maybe there’s a different intention than with other forms of self-harm…
I mean, just learning to skate is painful. You don’t just go straight to handrails and scrape your face off the ground when you wheel bite. So, there’s an element of pain. Something I learned recently that I thought was quite interesting, that may be relevant, was the areas of your brain that are associated with pleasure and reward—there’s the ventral tegmental area, the nucleus accumbens, and then the activation of the dopamine pathways. That system is also related to the release of endorphins, and you get endorphins when you do various things. Many substances will release endorphins, and so will cutting, and physical pain. And, I didn’t know this, ‘endorphins’ are endogenous morphine. It’s your body’s self-produced morphine. That’s what you are getting. Skating is healthy and long-term beneficial, but there is that element of pain that you get from it, that releases endorphins and will have that same calming effect. That’s kind of it. [With skateboarding] you have to go for things that you’re not sure you can make. And slam. A lot. And that’s painful. Is there something in pushing yourself into that because you are calming yourself from the fallout of emotionally overwhelming things, like the loss of a parent. So, the parameters of, when does self-harm become negative or unhealthy and in need of intervention, versus what are the limits of using that mechanism to soothe yourself where the outcomes long-term are okay, I think there’s always parameters like that with these things.
Do you think that some people might view that as quite a negative idea, thinking of skateboarding as a self-harm behaviour, given some people’s assumptions around self-harm.
I mean, it seems like we’re getting to splitting out the difference between prosocial and antisocial versions of self-harm. Antisocial broadly, just meaning like, it’s not seen as ‘okay’ in the broader culture. And then prosocial being like, it’s got some positive benefits and you’re able to interact well with other people. I don’t know… Does it concern you to put that idea out there, of skateboarding as self-harm? I just think it’s an interesting angle. That’s my personal experience, that there was a bit of that in learning to skate and pushing yourself and going through the pain of doing it, but I was in control, and skateboarding is generally seen as a prosocial activity.
BACKSIDE NOSEGRIND, BARCELONA, 2006. PH: ALEX IRVINE.
I’m not concerned about the idea at all. I suppose I’m playing devil’s advocate to try and pick it apart a bit. I don’t think the statement is anything but interesting, really.
And, I think that if I really sum it up, and we put it back into perspective, we’re not doing some broad meta-analysis of all skateboarders and what their motivations are. We’re talking about what my motivation was. Emotional distress drove me to push myself further than my peers. And that’s it. So that’s my experience. When I look back at it, I’m like, ‘Oh, maybe there’s something in that, maybe you have subconscious desire to experience some pain,’ because it does release endorphins and does its mechanistic job of calming you down from whatever’s going on in your head and whatever is being driven in those base, lizard-brain emotional systems.
It puts you in some control over the experience. Skateboarding provided a good option for me. I guess it’s kind of circling back to what we started talking about at the start of our conversation. Looking back, one of the reasons I pushed myself to the level I did, was, I believe, to try and counteract emotional distress that had happened when I was a kid, when I was 13 or whatever. It’s interesting, the dichotomies that we’re surfacing. Like there’s antisocial or prosocial avenues kids can take.
And a lot of it comes down to luck.
I was lucky that I saw skating as a kid.
And then Quarterback (American sports store/skate shop) opened up when I was young, and so skating became
a viable option.
And then I was reasonably good at it, so that was encouragement to continue.
And then, luckily, with what I was escaping emotionally, I found a fairly positive crew. You can quite easily find be-
longing in really toxic or bad circumstances too, or not find something like skateboarding that helps you, that does what it needs to do for you to get through heavy emotional fallout.
GAP TO LIPSLIDE, ABERDEEN, 2002. PH: OLIVER BARTON.
So, for you, skateboarding was a safe place with some degree of control and a bit of punishment?
And then a healthy dose of risk. Then there’s the idea that the old social structures that would keep adolescents safe, the village model, the extended family, all of that’s kind of broken down for so many people. So, there’s this bigger macro thing that’s happened as well, maybe beyond the scope of what we’re trying to do here, but [there’s] something interesting there.
I think connection is a really important thing, isn’t it? And I think skateboarding provides a lot of that, even globally, like you mentioned before.
Yeah, the surrogate for the village that has broken down over the course of the last 50, 100, 150 years for humanity. It’s a survival strategy that’s worked for some kids and it doesn’t work for everyone, because it’s as tribal as anything else. Because it’s comprised of humans who are both awesome creative angels, and damaged conniving demons all at the same time.
But we can save that conversation for next time.
FRONTSIDE CARVE, REYKJAVIK, 2000. PH: ANDREW HORSLEY.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 4, 2019
Jarne Verbruggen: What Paradise?
Jarne is more like a brother than a friend to me. Many know that he has been struggling with himself and with a certain demon, which is alcohol and other hard drugs. The love I feel for him is stronger than anything, as is the misery we’ve been going through lately. I believe fear is the opposite of love, and love is stronger than fear. I think the fear of seeing him lose himself will not win against the love for seeing him overcome this. I believe with my whole heart that he will overcome this demon. And I think skateboarding is the perfect weapon to do so.
A while ago I discovered the books ‘The Four agreements’ and ‘The Mastery of Love’, by Don Miguel Ruiz, a Mexican author of Toltec spiritualist and neoshamanistic texts. According to the ancient teachings of the Toltec, kids express their love through play. You could draw a parallel between those kids and skateboarders, who express their love through skateboarding. The bigger the love for themselves, the purer they skate. When I see Jarne skate, it’s full of purity and love, and I really believe that that love is stronger than the demon.
A lot of people are quick to judge, without really knowing what their judgment is about or aware of the consequences, for him as well as for themselves. They should realise that this judgment says more about themselves than what they’re judging. So please, stop doing that. Not only regarding Jarne’s situation, but in general as well. You’d better ask yourself: ‘Who am I to judge?’
Interview by Ben Daeleman
Translation by Sanne Verbruggen
Jarne, pal, I really love you man.
Jarne Verbruggen: I love you too, man.
Ph. Guillaume Périmony
Do you remember the night we were at the bar, around eight years ago? We said the same then, although we were a bit wasted. Remember what happened?
Yeah, we tongued, ha ha. And then we took our beers, said cheers and ‘never again’.
It just had to happen. Crazy we actually did that, ha ha. Back then the drinking and partying was only for fun. When did it start to become less fun for you?
That’s a while ago already, when I discovered I wasn’t drinking for fun, but because it had become a habit. And I realised I had a problem. I must have been 18 or 19. It didn’t go so far yet; I was still able to combine it with everything. Although… the only things I was doing were drinking and skating.
Bad things were already happening; I was always losing everything. I got into fights when I was wasted, doing stupid stuff. I think my Mom and sisters were already worried back then. But it was hard for me to admit that it was real.
You were also hiding a lot from me. Other friends knew more about it, because you knew I was really against it.
Yes. It was difficult to say, because I was ashamed. And for a long time I didn’t tell anybody because I’d been looking for help on my own, but I never managed to do it by myself. In some way I wanted help, because I knew I needed it. And at a certain moment I came out with it because I didn’t want this bullshit anymore.
I remember going to (the hospital in) Tienen and the lady asked you if it was your first intake. You said, very sure of yourself, ‘yes, and the last one’. But that wasn’t the case.
No, that’s not how it went. It wasn’t the last time. I didn’t feel good there. I felt locked up and I can’t stand that. I wasn’t able to do what I wanted and that almost made me want to go drink even more and do things that were not allowed. So I snuck out once to drink. I used to think those things didn’t help, because they confront you with what is wrong the whole time. But they do keep you safe from everything, so eventually it did help to be there for a while and come out of there stronger. As I started drinking more, from morning ‘til evening, it became more difficult to get out of that cycle. You don’t just do that.
What was a day like for you?
When I went to bed, I usually had some alcohol left. When I got up, I just started drinking again before I got a chance to sober up. I was still living with my Mom and Stepdad, just in my room on my own. Wake up and start to drink: very disturbing. Doing that, I just started feeling like a worse human being and it became more difficult to accept myself and get out of the bullshit. I really thought it was just too late. And the rehab centres in Belgium, they are basically monasteries with people who don’t know what it is like to be an alcoholic.
Ollie out to frontside wallride, Barcelona. Ph. Roger Ferrero
We looked for other solutions together and we found a rehab centre in South Africa. We flew there together. The flight there wasn’t really easy, right?
Yes, in January 2018. That flight… I was on medication when I wasn’t drinking to deal with the detox, and to keep me from drinking, but I had been drinking for four days straight when we left.
And you should have been sober for two weeks before going in. Why do you think you relapsed? Did you think, come on, once more, now I can?
Yes, definitely. And I’d lost all my meds. So I had to get on that plane after not sleeping for four days. I hadn’t eaten and slept; I’d just been drinking. I had a panic attack on the plane and then I started drinking and taking painkillers. But I did get over my fear of flying on that plane, ha ha. I didn’t care anymore.
So something positive did come out of it, ha ha! I remember you asked me if you could have one more beer after we arrived and was shocked by how fast you drank it. So you arrived there wasted. How did the rest of the time go?
The first day I had to get up at 7am. I still didn’t have my medication; I didn’t know where I was. It was very difficult to get started there. But I did learn a lot from other addicts, about how I was handling things unconsciously, just to be able to go drink. The addiction is so much deeper than you think. I do things I actually don’t want, like fucking over friends or even family. It was difficult to realise that, but I had to. At first I didn’t want to believe I was doing this kind of stuff, it’s so deep…
Frontside bluntslide kickflip out, Tenerife. Ph. Roger Ferrero
I went to some of the rehab centre’s meetings and they explained how you can deal with someone you know who’s addicted. I learned that the amount of dopamine your brain naturally releases during an orgasm for example, is 200 units. Alcohol triples that, and for cocaine it’s times five. Your prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for decision making, seeing good from bad, has been bombarded with this dopamine, and after a while it just stopped working properly. Then your basic survival took over and that’s what happened to your brain, pal. They also say you have to keep seeing the person behind the addiction, and I’ve always done that. I know you’re a good person.
I was just manipulating the people around me, but I wasn’t aware of it. It sounds like an excuse, but that guy isn’t me, you know. That kind of stuff… And yeah, after South Africa, I relapsed…
How long did that take?
Only three days I think; that was horrible. I wasn’t doing anything anymore. I wasn’t taking care of myself; I didn’t give a fuck. I just had to be away from my thoughts. I wandered around, sometimes for five days straight, and it seemed like an hour for me. Afterwards I heard what I had done, and I started drinking again to forget that. So the cycle continued.
My door was always open for you, and the people from the rehab centre told me that didn’t help you. How did it feel for you when I said you weren’t welcome anymore when you’d been drinking?
That was really a slap in my face. They had told me it wasn’t good to have someone always be there for you.
That’s also why I didn’t want to tell anyone, because it would put a lot of pressure on me and I’d do it for someone else instead of for myself. I wanted everybody to leave me alone because then I would really have to watch out, because I would lose everything. That stuff doesn’t last.
How do you want to be treated?
Like the way you and Guillaume Périmony did. I was on tour with Guillaume in Paris and I had been drinking before the trip. Two of the three days I didn’t skate and Guillaume said he would leave me if he saw me drink. We were supposed to go to Marseille and I was really looking forward to it. But I wasn’t able to stop drinking; I fucked up. So Guillaume just left. That really hurt, realising I was able to do something like that. I feel safer with you guys, because I know the chance of me drinking will be smaller.
You came on a trip with us and promised you wouldn’t drink, but at the first gas station you already had a beer in your hands. We put you in the car and every time we stopped we had to lock the doors.
I had been drinking for a couple of days and to stop without sleeping is very difficult. It fucking hurts, physically and mentally; it’s not an excuse, it’s just like that. That’s why it was so bad that time.
Gap to boardslide, Tenerife. Ph. Roger Ferrero
Did becoming pro have anything to do with it? Did it get worse then?
No, not at all. People just didn’t realise how bad it was before. I stayed sober for a year in 2016, that’s why they wanted to make me pro. But I started using again and it got worse. So it had been going on for longer and it didn’t get better. The year I was going to be pro I got hurt a lot. I didn’t heal because I kept drinking. I felt like I didn’t deserve it. That’s why it took so long for me to start skating with my own deck. It didn’t feel right. Everybody thinks it got worse, but it was already bad.
For your sponsors it was a dilemma, they obviously didn’t want to keep paying you because they knew you were buying dope with that money. So they paused your contract… How did that feel?
I cried after that phone call. It broke my heart, but I also wanted to say thank you. The last thing I want is to lose everything. You think it won’t happen, but it did and that was a shock. It helped me, although it took me a while. I kept acting foolish for a bit, as if I didn’t care. I knew I was going to do something about it, but didn’t know when. Eventually it happened after a week of acting like an imbecile. I signed up in the hospital on Christmas morning. But I hadn’t had a phone for a month. I had given them my Mom’s phone number; they called her and said I could come in.
No, they called me. A week before I’d gone to the hospital with you, because you were motivated. They didn’t let you in then, and you started crying because you really wanted to do something about it. They contacted me, and I wanted you to come stay at my place. When I called you, you were in Brussels and you could hardly speak. You were supposed to come to my place, but instead you went to a bar in Mechelen. I stayed up all night, waiting for you. That’s the night they gave you Kambo, the frog poison. You could have died that night.
Just one of the nights I could have died…
Frontside 360, Tenerife. Ph. Clément Le Gall
They gave it to you when you were already hammered, which is so irresponsible. But then I got a phone call from the hospital, to let me know you were there. Apparently you took a taxi from the bar. It was a lot better than me bringing you, because it was you who made the decision.
I wanted it, because I knew it was my last shot to get in there. They’d tried to call me in three times before. That day was hell because I had to sober up, but I could just have left if I’d wanted to. I knew I had to do it, that this was the moment, otherwise it wouldn’t happen. But that was fucking Christmas morning. Knowing I was going to be there for the holidays didn’t really help to stay there. I was so wasted and didn’t get medication because I was still drunk. I had to stay alone in my room but I went crazy, so I laid down in the hallway. If I would have had to stay alone, they wouldn’t have seen me again. I ended up sleeping for a week. And then something just clicked; I got my motivation back. I didn’t want that bullshit anymore; I just wanted to get stronger again. I stayed there for a month, and got motivated to do stuff, started making plans. You guys came to pick me up; they allowed me to go skate for three hours.
At the start I couldn’t even skate. It was fucking disgusting; I could hardly stand on my deck. After a while things went better and I was allowed out on the weekend. I was skating the whole time and it felt so good. It made me feel happy again, and it had been a long time. And what did I do after that month…? I think I went to Barcelona.
Yes, you went to Barcelona, Ibiza, Paris…
No, I went to Barcelona another time, I think. Which seemed like a ridiculous idea. I don’t remember with whom… Keke (Enrique Mayor) and Roger (Ferrero)… I don’t remember…
You suddenly got so motivated that you planned a lot of things; you wanted to do one trip after the other. In South Africa they also told me that it was typical for addicts: to want everything right away. That motivation was awesome, but too much… You have to learn moderation.
I’ve always been extreme with everything. That’s why I can’t drink. I can’t even eat; I always stuff myself ‘til I feel sick. I also skate until I can’t anymore. I don’t have limits; I don’t know when to stop.
When you land it, of course. 🙂
Yeah… Can we also say some good stuff? We’ve had the bad part.
Tail drop to 50-50, Barcelona. Ph. Roger Ferrero
People don’t realise how bad it was. I was stuck in pure marginalisation. I was taken to emergency rooms three times in one month. Twice I almost died, once I had a hole in my head.
Now you’re really fighting it, and trying your best. But when you relapse, the consequences are getting worse.
True.
This kid told you that you used to be his hero, but not anymore. What did that do to you?
That really hurt, because he was a small kid, who admired me. He saw that sometimes I wasn’t skating, but he didn’t know what was going on. He supported me, even though he didn’t know what my problem was. It always motivated me to hear him, but when he said that… It really hurt me.
Your sister told me you’ve been going to your dealer crying.
Pfft, I don’t know man, isn’t this a bit too much…?
But doesn’t that mean you actually really don’t want it? Because I know you don’t, man.
If you say that too, yes. But will people believe it? I know that I can really do it; I’m like a little boy that wants to prove himself. That is one of my biggest motivations to get out of this.
I think this demon is not going to get you. What can people do to help you with this?
I just want people to realise that it’s more of a problem than a pleasure. People don’t seem to understand and I don’t feel like explaining it every time. I don’t want to take anything away from anyone, and also not say that it’s a bad thing, just for some people it’s bad. For me it is, and that’s a pity. I wish I could just drink two beers, go home, and not wake up five days later. People have to know that for me it also started as something fun, but it escalated. Eventually I couldn’t combine anything anymore with all that boozing; I just lost my life. I wasn’t anything anymore. Fortunately I have skateboarding to keep me on my feet. It’s the only thing that can give me satisfaction. That’s what you need, and after a while I also lost that, the feeling of satisfaction. It took a while to find it back, but I did. It was just a click in my head, like the time in 2016, when we got back from this trip from Berlin with Phil (Zwijsen). After five days of drinking I asked you to bring me to the hospital.
You told me ‘bring me to the hospital, I’m fucking aching.’ And I know, I was in the room with my girlfriend, and you would’ve never come in if it wasn’t bad. I know your pain tolerance is really high, so you must have been in real pain. We drove an hour to the hospital and you couldn’t wait, you jumped out the bus. Phil and me did rock paper scissors to see who was going to tell the doctor. And I knew it was going to be me, I’d have to be the one to tell them.
They checked my stomach and I had seven ulcers, my stomach was bleeding.
Backside tailslide, Rijeka, Croatia. Ph. Guillaume Périmony
That was a turning point in my eyes, that it really wasn’t OK anymore.
The moment I saw the two of you standing next to my bed… It still gives me goosebumps if I think about it; I had this click in my head and wanted to go for it. I wanted to get rid of the ulcers and it was one of the best years of my life. I felt good on my deck. But it was still difficult and I know it will be like that forever.
Do you really think so?
Yeah man. But I know how to make it easier. The longer I’m sober, the easier it becomes. If you drink again, you get back in that hole, and your body gets used to it again, until you start losing everything again.
You’ve been sober for two days now. In the part you just filmed, all those moments you were good. How often did you relapse in that period?
Those first trips were really tough, because I wasn’t 100% yet. During those trips I didn’t drink.
But between the trips you did.
Yes, when I was back in Belgium, passing by all those places again, like the train station in Mechelen, I kind of lived there for a bit. I passed by there sober and all the bums said hello to me. Then I realised ‘what the fuck!’
Your Spitfire wheels almost got cancelled. How did you feel when you heard that?
It broke me, but in a good way. It made me realise it just wasn’t right. This would be my only chance for something like that, and I was throwing it away. Then you realise you’re acting like a fool.
Pole jam, Barcelona. Ph. Roger Ferrero
So you got a grip and they decided to make the wheel… Because also those guys believe in you.
I almost couldn’t believe it. It motivated me even more and I started going for it again. Just for skating, not exactly for the wheel, but for myself. But it was thanks to that wheel, yes.
This made you realise you could lose everything?
Yes, exactly that. It’s so crazy to come out with this. The idea that this will be published… When three years ago, I didn’t even dare to tell my sisters this stuff. Or you.
I think it’s brave, man.
I hope that people… I hope I can inspire people to watch out with this shit. Before you know you’re deeper in it than you think. And I’ve been incredibly lucky to have good people around me, who have helped me.
All those people, your friends and family, reached a point where we’ve had it with wasted Jarne.
They never liked him to begin with, I guess.
No, but they tried to help you. And now it’s in your hands. We believe in you, because we know you’re a strong person.
I’d like to prove myself, and I will. I’ve done it a couple of times, so I know I can do it.
You shouldn’t prove yourself to other people; you should do it for yourself. It’s your life.
Yeah, I don’t know… I’d like to prove myself to be honest. To say fuck you, you didn’t expect this.
Like that firecracker. Ollie to firecracker.
That was the day with Guillaume in Paris, when I’d been drinking. I really wasn’t OK. Fucked up actually. I didn’t land that trick because I was dead. And then Guillaume said ‘fuck you’. Six months later I tried and I landed it, because I was sober. I don’t want to sound like a hypocrite and don’t want to tell anyone to not use anything. I just want to say I have bad experiences with it. I don’t want to offend anyone, because I also had fun, you know.
What are the positive things you got out of it?
I tongued with you, I would never dare to do that sober, ha ha. Of course, it was fun man, but at a point I didn’t do it to have fun anymore.
Ollie out to 50-50, Tenerife. Ph. Roger Ferrero
The last two years weren’t fun for anyone anymore…
I know… But are we just going to talk about this alcohol problem? It should all be there, but I want it to be positive, too. Because to be honest, I’m happy with how it is now.
We’re in Croatia now. Before you were living with your Mom and Stepdad, but they moved now. What’s your vision now?
I just filmed a part with Guillaume, and I realised it’s good for me to be around him, to not be in the same place for too long, and just skate and have a goal. And after this, I want to film a
Thrasher
part. I will have to look for a place, and I hope my stuff won’t have to be in your house for five years. I will look for a place in Brussels, as cheap as possible, so I can be there as little as possible.
Why Brussels?
So I can be close to you guys. I will have Byrrrh skatepark, good spots and Geoffrey (Van Hove) to film with. And it’s got good connections to everywhere. One hour to Paris, ten hours to Vietnam… You see? I think it’s a cool city, I feel good there. There are a lot of different cultures; the people are cool. I won’t be there too much, but I’ll at least have a place to come home, close to friends. That’s important to me.
We are also waiting for you to come back to Jean Jacques.
There’s nothing I’d want more; we’re going to do some heavy stuff. We have to go on tour, take all the guys with us.
Remember you’re our team manager.
I know, I just don’t know if the guys remember, ha ha.
I mention it once in a while, ha ha.
You know, I lived with my mother for too long. I’m happy she moved to Croatia now. So if some people want to do a trip to Croatia, she has apartments in Icici. You’re always welcome, ha ha. But I will have to start taking care of myself; I won’t come home and get food anymore. It will probably be a kebab. Or I’ll find some cookies in my backpack.
I just want to look forward and I think it’s amazing that you are so motivated and that you want to share this with everyone, it’s very admirable.
Yeah, I wasn’t so sure, but I guess it’s too late now. In some way it feels good, because I always tried to hide it. But the more embarrassed I got… I don’t want to come across as pathetic. I always want to be the tough guy and prove myself, but now I want to show my weak side. I’m surprised by the support I get. Like when I post something on Instagram, I’m really surprised by the reactions…
We all love you, man.
I’m getting a bit nervous from all this, I’m sweating like crazy, man.
Me too, man, this isn’t simple for either of us.
This is a big turning point in my life, and I think it’s a really good change.
I think so too, man, you look good.
Don’t start kissing me now, man.
Ha ha, no, that was once and never again, remember? Come on, give me a hug, bro. This was good.
Yes, this is good.
Ph. Guillaume Périmony

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 23, 2017
Kevin Bækkel Interview
Frontside wallride pull-out, Estoril, Portugal. Ph. Pedro Raimundo
I met Kevin Bækkel briefly last summer, we didn’t speak much, but what I remember most is the sound made by the smack of his tail after performing a head-high Madonna. I’m guessing other skaters at the various European comps this past summer know that sound too: Whaaack! It certainly gets everyone’s attention. So besides knowing that he’s from Norway and his loud Madonnas I didn’t know much about Kevin before doing this interview. The CPH guys (William and Keld) told me Kevin always hangs with
Jared Cleland
and
Alexander Risvad
in Copenhagen and they would be good people to ask to get some background info. After some Instagram messages and an email later Kevin’s long-time friend Jared, from California, helped me out with some interesting Kevin anecdotes.
Interview by Will Harmon
Can you tell us where you grew up and how you were first introduced to skateboarding?
Kevin Bækkel: I grew up in a town called Hamar, Norway; it’s about an hour away from Oslo. I got into skating when I was nine years old. I’d go to the skatepark with my bike, and I’d see all the older dudes with skateboards and I thought it looked rad.
Backside boneless plant, LA suburbs, USA. Ph. Cameron Strand
What do you do in regards to skating due to Norway’s harsh winters?
When I was super young we didn’t have an indoor park in the winter. We’d just skate outside in parking garages and stuff like that, but then a couple years later we got an indoor park. But we’d always just gear up in all kinds of jackets and pants and just skate outside. Our grip tape would fall off and shit… If you had a new set-up you’d better watch out. Your grip would just fall off it was so cold.
Can you tell us about your first time going to the States?
My first time in the US was for the Volcom Wild in the Parks contest. I won the fourteen and under European thing so they sent me to Arizona for the final. So I flew out to Phoenix and Axel (Cruysberghs) and his mum were on the plane and then at the contest is where I met all my homies that I’m still friends with today. I would always fuck around and bark at the hotel, because I can bark like a dog really well. People in the hotel thought there was a dog running around and I kept doing it at the skatepark too so all the people that I’m really good friends with now (like Jared) came up to me and said: ‘You fucking kidding me, that’s you? We seriously thought it was a dog running around!’ And then we just became friends after that.
Boardslide through all the kinks, Carcavelos, Portugal. Ph. Pedro Raimundo
Yeah Jared said you’d bark like a dog because you couldn’t speak much English…
Yeah I couldn’t speak English at all basically, so I was just fucking with them. Then I started hanging out with them and we went to Hooters and I got kicked out of there for barking at a waitress. (Laughs)
No way!
Yeah. But after that I would come out to the States to hang out with those guys to skate and film. I’ve been doing that every three months ever since.
And you always go to California every time you go back?
Yeah I either go visit Jared or (David) Gravette. Right now I’m in Santa Cruz and I’ve been here a lot lately.
And how did you hook up with Creature?
Way back when I was thirteen I think David Gravette and Eman Guzman came and did a Vox demo in my town. They were like the first pros I’d ever seen in real life. I got hooked up with Creature in Norway after that and then I went and met those guys again in the States and they introduced me to the rest of the team.
I hear you’ve had problems at customs entering the US before.
I’ve just been there so many times for three months, then I leave for three months, come back for three months and so on so the customs people would always stop me. They couldn’t understand what I was doing. I was just coming there to skate and spend money basically. I always had a free place to live so I didn’t have a problem with staying there a long time. So many times Jared has been waiting for me at the airport and he’s had to wait like two extra hours because I’ve been in all these gnarly interviews in little rooms with these gnarly American cops. They were thinking I was there illegally or some bullshit.
Kevin. Portrait by Noah Quale
Do they think you are there to work or something? What do they think?
They think I don’t have money when I come. They think I’m going to stay over my visa and not leave after three months because I’m always on a tourist visa. They usually just don’t believe what I’m saying and then I have to convince them.
Aren’t you spending a lot of time in Copenhagen? You had a video part with Jared in the
Danish video
Hitit
.
Yeah I’ve lived there (CPH) for a year and a half. Well, I just gave up my apartment there, so I don’t really know where I’m going now.
Why did you pick Copenhagen to move to from Norway?
It’s the best city in the world; I love that place and my dad is Danish so I speak fluent Danish. Half my family lives in Denmark.
Jared told me to ask you about the two homie videos you were in out in LA:
Disorganized Fun
and
Goosenectar
…
Yeah that was the first time I really street filmed. Yeah it was crazy, I came out to California and everyone has VX1000s, cars and the crew was like twelve people deep. We’d drive to all the famous spots and I had never done anything like that. I’d filmed a little bit in Norway, but nothing like that… It was a whole different story.
Frontside air to disaster, Suvilahti DIY, Helsinki. Ph. Keke Leppala
You went on the most recent King of the Road, how was that? Any crazy stories?
I did, but I can’t really talk too much about it because I signed all these gnarly contracts because it’s going to be on TV. But it was the best time of my life! It was the funnest thing I’ve ever done.
OK so I don’t know if you can answer this or not, but did you feel you had to be over-dramatic to make the King of the Road episodes better? Is there pressure for that?
No it’s just like how it is… It’s super mellow; there’s always a TV crew with us. But they don’t make us do things or make it gnarlier than it really is.
Jared says to ask you why you went to Brazil last year?
Oh my god… (Laughs) I got a phone call from this dude who was trying to put together a Norwegian team or something, but I didn’t really hear too much about it. He just called me and asked me if I wanted to go to a bowl contest in Rio and he’d pay my flight, hotel and everything. I’d never heard of this contest or anything, but I was like ‘fuck it! I’ve never been there. If it’s all free I’m gone!’ So I get there and I don’t even know what to call it, but I was on a Scandinavian team. It was me, the skater, a BMX dude, a marathon runner, a mountain climber and a surfer and I’m like ‘dude, what the fuck?’ So we all have to do our own contests and my team did pretty good, like all the other dudes, and then on the last day I had to do the skate contest so I did that. And then an hour after that they’re like ‘OK now we are going to have a team race.’ I’m like: ‘what do you mean team race?’ And they were like: ‘Yeah we are going out to the beach, we’ve got to
paddle and canoe for like twelve kilometres
.’
What the fuck?
Yeah, against twenty other teams from all over the world.
What is the name of these games?
It’s called a
Rocky Man
. Look it up it’s crazy.
Frontside 50-50 grind, Los Angeles, USA. Ph. Cameron Strand
So were there any other skaters there you recognised?
Yeah there were some. I don’t even remember they were all like Brazilian Mega-Ramp skaters. They were gnarly, but I don’t remember their names.
That sounds weird.
Yeah so after the 12km paddling there was a twenty-minute break and then we had to run twelve kilometres.
Hahaha…
Yeah as soon as I flew in to Brazil and I got to the hotel I was smoking a cigarette and they (the Norwegian team) come down and they’re like ‘no way! We got a dude that smokes on the team! Fuck!’ They were so bummed.
They thought you were a professional athlete…
Yeah they were like ‘this man can’t run for shit.’ But we ended up winning the entire thing though! It was crazy.
So did you have to wear some type of uniform? I can’t imagine you running 12km in Dickies…
Yeah I had some shorts and some crazy green tank top thing. There are some funny photos somewhere… Yeah as soon as I got there I wanted to leave; I was so over it.
So did you do anything else in Brazil or was it just this competition?
Louie (Lopez) and the Converse team were in town so every night I would just go meet up with them and go drinking and partying.
Noseblunt pull-in to 5-0 grind, Lisbon, Portugal. Ph. Pedro Raimundo
What did your other teammates think of that?
They were bummed. They would go to bed at like 8pm and wake up at five in the morning. I’d be out partying and come home at three or four.
But you guys still won the whole thing!
Yeah it was insane. They tried to make me do it again this year, but I was like ‘hell no’.
You skate a lot of comps… Do you love ‘em? Or do you just skate them to win money?
Sometimes they are fun and sometimes they are the worst things ever. I skate them basically to just make money, as I don’t get paid from anyone. I skate them to just get me through the winter basically. I don’t really care that much, but every time I skate a contest I try my hardest.
Who are your sponsors now?
Creature, Emerica, Indy, Mob and DAF.
What is DAF?
DAF is a coozie company. You know, the beer holders.
Yeah!
The guy I’m staying with, Noah, he’s filming the Creature video, and that’s his company: DAF Made.
I have a friend here who loves coozies (Guy Jones).
I kept the same coozie for almost two years in my back pocket. It’s so old, dirty, broken and just smells like old beer, but it’s my little lucky coozie I always have.
Frontside boardslide to fakie, Los Angeles, USA. Ph. Cameron Strand
Sick! So what do you have lined up for 2017?
The Creature video is coming out in April. We might go around the US and show the video. But then I’ll do basically what I do every year in Europe: go to Copenhagen, go to all the little contests and skate all around Europe. I always come back to Europe for the summer. Europe in the summer… It doesn’t get much better than that!
It doesn’t! OK anyone you’d like to thank?
I want to thank my family, all my sponsors, and all the homies you know who you are! Smokes!!!

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 9, 2023
Jack O ’Grady — Calculated Lunacy / Let’s Talk About Jack
Jack O’Grady, a young man as well-mannered as he is well-travelled. Delivering hard on the promise of his part in Pass~Port’s 2019 video,
Kitsch,
Jack’s knack for mountainous 50-50s, sprawling downhill lines and a world tour of rugged (and almost comically oversized) flat banks positions his skateboarding as a uniquely rollercoaster affair. Having made an impact in London during the filming of
Kitsch
, Jack has maintained a connection with the city and travelled further than he ever expected. After turning pro for Pass~Port in 2021, he spent 2022 between his hometown of Sydney, and exploring Europe, whilst beginning to settle into a newfound home of Los Angeles. Catching him, fittingly, on the tail-end of a trip for Geoff Campbell’s ‘
Internet Birthday
’ series, I spoke to Jack about life so far, his travels, and asked his close friends for some background on the fella they call ‘Squish’.
-Farran Golding
Kickflip in, London. Ph. James Griffiths.
Interview by Farran Golding
How’d you get the nickname, ‘Squish’?
Everyone in my family had chubby cheeks when they were young so, when I was younger, I had a really big face. When I started skating at my local park in Waterloo, I was about 11 or 12 and everyone squeezed my cheeks and earlobes and would say, ‘Gimme some of that squish.’ Then people started calling me ‘Squish Dog’ – that first bit stuck – and now people just call me ‘Squish’. I like it.
I spoke to Matlok [Bennett-Jones], Geoff Campbell and Trent Evans [filmer and Pass~Port owner, respectively] as we were setting this interview up and they spoke about how supportive your parents are. Can you talk about your relationship with them in regards to you and skateboarding?
Right before I [properly] started skating, I was seven and I had played Rugby League since I was five. I had to train on Tuesday and Thursday nights then play on a Saturday. My cousin took me to this indoor skatepark but then I couldn’t go because I had rugby training. One day, when my dad was driving me home from a game, I told him I didn’t want to play anymore because it meant I couldn’t skate. I was only a couple of weeks into skating and I’d played rugby for two years. He took me out [of rugby] straight away and would take me to skateparks.
They’re so supportive of what I do. It’s nice to have that always there. When I was younger, I thought that was normal but growing up I’d speak to friends and realise how lucky I am. Not everyone’s parents are like that. My dad’s always coming to the skatepark or hanging out with the lads. They love it.
Even when I wasn’t doing anything in skating, my parents were backing it. I’d go to comps when I was younger and they’d drive me a couple of hours there, just giving me the option to do what I want to do. Getting older, filming for certain videos and getting on board with Nike at such a young age, it opened my eyes but opened their eyes to see, like, ‘Oh, he can do something here
if he wants to.’ Having footage in
Cumberland County
[the 2017 Australian Nike SB video], was a big thing for me but for them as well.
The premiere was at Martin Place in Sydney, which was crazy. That was their first premiere, it was my first too, and a lot of people from Sydney and Melbourne were there. They were happy to see the support from everyone. That was the night I got on Pass~Port. We went to this pub after the premiere and they surprised me. Australians riding for international companies is amazing but it was special that Pass~Port, and all they do, is in Australia and especially Sydney. It was nice for my parents to be face-to-face with Trent and for Pass~Port to have a physical presence. That was really special to me as well.
Backside 50-50, Malmö. Ph: Nils Svensson.
You went to Athens with Pass~Port shortly thereafter [
Greeced Up
, 2018] and Trent said that even then, on your first international trip, you seemed to be in a good place with skating away from home. Why do you think that works for you?
I’m sure a lot of people can agree but it’s that classic thing of having never been there before, and you’ve never seen those spots before, so everything is new and exciting. Skating at home, if there’s a certain spot, you can think about coming back whenever but if you see something when you’re away, you have to do it then or you don’t do it at all. For me, that’s motivating. The majority of trips I go on too are with my good friends and that’s what gets me excited to skate.
The Pass~Port video,
Kitsch
, felt like a breakout moment for you. Did you see it as that kind of opportunity or were you trying to just do right by those guys?
I was very appreciative to be a part of it. Any chance I got, I was keen to skate and go in. They did a lot of different trips for that and being younger, watching videos – like Alien Workshop’s
Mind Field
– there are sections where you can tell the team took trips abroad.
It was cool to see that a sponsor takes them to different places to film a part. When Trent said they’re going to do a proper video, taking us here and there, that was like a dream come true.
Frontside heelflip, Maidstone. Ph: James Griffiths.
Some of your standout footage in
Kitsch
was filmed in London. How far into the video did you come over whilst filming for it?
It was when Carhartt and Pass~Port did this collaboration and video of a trip we took to the Northern Territories [
Kiss Me In The NT
, 2019]. We came to Europe to premiere that so we went to London, Paris, Brussels and Copenhagen. That was a four-week trip and my first time travelling around Europe. I wanted to stay somewhere longer so I thought I’d pick one [of those cities] and go there.
We went to London first and I met so many people in that week, so I decided to go there again after [the premiere tour]. I stayed at Matlok’s for two weeks, I had a flight home and I cancelled it, booked another for two weeks later, cancelled that, booked another one for three weeks’ time and I might have changed that again.
I think I stayed for a month and a half; at Matlok’s for three or four weeks and then I went to Will Miles’ and Kyron Davis’ house. All of that footage was filmed in that time, going out with Will.
You really went in on a few historic London spots during that trip. Whilst on the other side of the world, Geoff said it was exciting seeing that footage come through. As you’ve been travelling for about as long as you’ve been properly sponsored, do you feel more responsible to produce when you aren’t at home?
Definitely. If someone pays for me to go somewhere and I do fuck all, I feel like a dickhead [laughs]. If someone has organised something, I feel obliged to do my job.
Matlok agreed with me on this but, being English, I’ve always found Australians really easy to get along with. What’s your take on that?
That was one of the main reasons why, having come to London for a week, I wanted to come back and why I stayed for so long. Even today, London is like a second home.
It’s funny, I’ve tried to explain it as well, being Australian and meeting an English person, immediately there’s something in common. Going to other parts of the world sometimes it’s hard to make those connections straight away but with Australian and English people, it’s not like you’re going overboard trying to connect, it’s just a natural thing. So many people I’ve met [in London] are now long-time friends.
I love London, I want to live there at some point for a little bit. Although, I don’t know about the winter. I went recently, when Matlok turned pro, with Trent for a week and a half. We got there three days before the premiere but Matlok didn’t know so Trent and I had to hide for three days. I’ve been around snow before but I’ve never been in a city when it snowed and that was maybe Trent’s second time experiencing it. It was so good. I went to this pub – me, Trent, Will and a few others – then when we came outside it was fully snowing, so powdery. Trent and I were losing our mind, making snow angels probably in this really dirty car park. It’s so cosy, so nice to sit inside whilst it’s snowing but I guess the novelty of it wore off. It was sick for, like, three days then I was like, ‘Ah, it’s actually pretty hard to do stuff here,’ [laughs].
Ollie in, London. Ph. James Griffiths.
As a friend, in his job as the Aussie Nike TM, and through working on videos for Pass~Port, Geoff Campbell has been involved in your life for a long time and in a few different ways. Could you speak more to that?
You’re so right, he’s played a lot of roles. There are a lot of people who have helped me so much, where
I wouldn’t be where I am today without them and Geoff’s one of those people. He’s pushed me a lot whether mentally or physically, he’s bent over backwards for a lot of other people. He’s always putting so much effort in, more effort than he needs to, which is amazing.
On the filming side, I’ve never had a better relationship with someone. I’m sure other people can agree that filming with Geoff is very professional. He’s so passionate about skating and he’s so passionate about filming skating so when you’re with him, he’s very switched on.
It’s funny, someone could do a pretty buck trick and he’ll ask if you can do it again. He’ll ask a skater to do a trick multiple times so he can make the clip as best he can, which I respect. He’s a perfectionist but you can see it when you watch his videos. To me, his filming is insane. When I watch sick fisheye clips, that’s way more exciting than long-lens. Especially coming into it with Geoff, the way he captures something fisheye, a spot could look like shit on a stick and he’d make it really pop. He always makes footage indulging and exciting.
You’ve been living in LA for about a year now. How are you finding it as a base compared to Sydney?
I went there in April of last year, stayed for a month and a half, then I went to Europe for a little over three months and came back to LA but I’d only been there three months before I came back to Australia for Christmas. The last three months was when I got a place so it only feels like I moved there three or four months ago. I can’t fully judge it because I feel like you need to be somewhere for a year before you know what’s going on.
There are good aspects. If you want to go skating every day, you can, which is crazy and why I wanted to move out of Sydney for a little bit. In America and LA, there are so many people whose jobs are in skating, compared to Sydney where a lot of people skate but work as well also. I’m not working a nine-to-five so it can be frustrating if you have to wait until every Saturday to skate with your friends or go filming.
But I miss my friends in Sydney a lot. There are cool people to meet and hang out with but home is where the heart is. Maybe some Australians move to America then that’s them for their whole skating career. I don’t see it like that. It’s just a stop-off. Yeah, but how long is a piece a string? I don’t know how long I’m going live there for but it isn’t going to be a long-long time. As I’ve gotten older, learning about things, skating with my friends is one of the main things that motivates me. I’m meeting and making a lot of cool friends on my travels but you can’t compare anyone to your day-ones, you know? Sydney, I see myself living the rest of my life there but I feel like it’s cool to go places, do your thing, then come back home.
Kickflip, London. Ph. Rafal Wojnowski.
Pass~Port had been gaining momentum for a few years before you were involved but now it’s a really prominent company. Trent does a great job of honing in Aussie, and I guess even local Sydney culture, for the imagery. Do you think Australia was due a company reaching that wider status within skateboarding?
Definitely, and there are other Australian brands, which are amazing, and I’m sure there’s going to be others that take off. You know when you meet someone and then that whole brand just makes sense? That’s what it’s like when you hang out with Trent or you’re talking to him. He’s so open, welcoming and wants to take everything that’s surrounding him and push it out to everyone. I’m lucky to be a part of it and it’s amazing what Trent has done, and what he’s doing, not even just for Pass~Port but for Australian skating.
I guess the likes of Chima [Ferguson] hit a point where he had to go to America to take things further. Whereas with you being younger, coming into a career a couple of generations down the line, skateboarding has a different landscape. The internet gave way for more attention to different locations and some of the companies who were once ‘small brands’ grew thanks to that. Palace, Polar and Pass~Port have been so successful from their home countries and even their home cities. As a result, people have been able to hold down a board sponsor, and often a decent shoe deal, on more of their own terms.
For sure, international skate brands are a big thing all over the world but back in the day you had to be on an American brand to go somewhere. I feel like that’s changed so much. Career-wise, maybe I didn’t have to move to America but I’m at an age where if I wanted to try this, I do it now or I don’t do it at all.It’s good that I got my visa because if I don’t like it, I can go there for a year and if I do like it, I can be there for three years. It’s a comfort. No-one asked me to move to America, there are just certain things I want to do and I think being there will help.
The other side of it, with videos and social media, especially for an Australian, is you don’t necessarily have to move to America. It’s more motivating to see when someone has been successful from their roots, or close to home, and they’ve taken that and shown everyone. Riding for a bigger company and turning pro, that’s amazing as well but it’s cool when people back who backed them from the start or push where they’re from, showing how proud they are of where they’re from.
Ph. James Griffiths.
Trent Evans on Jack O’Grady
Jack was always popping up around the Sydney scene, and I had taken notice, but George Kousoulis – a local videographer, was a big advocate of Jack getting involved with Pass~Port. We surprised him after a Nike video premiere. We made him a cake and a custom bathrobe, threw it on him, and asked if he’d be on the team. Around that time it was a case of getting the blessing from every head on the team, luckily everyone backed him to the nines even before he was even on.
I’m not much of a filmer, only with the 16mm and Super-8, but Geoff [Campbell] took on filming
Kitsch
and it was a joint venture to edit. When we started stacking up Jack’s footage, we saw it was turning into something special. We were lucky to take the video, and in turn Jack and his part, around the world to premiere it. People sort of lost it for his footage and we used a local band, Low Life. Everything made so much sense to us. It was a punchy edit. We couldn’t be happier with how it all came together and pushed Jack in the right direction as well.
It’s been a good mix at the moment, he’s been back in Sydney for a couple of months and I’ve been going every so often with him. It’s a completely different strategy, I guess, while he’s in Sydney. He’s got unfinished business and new spots pop up. Whereas overseas, I think he thrives even more. If he’s in a country that he may not be back in any time soon and he sees something, he can’t take his mind off that until it’s completed. He will keep going back until he’s landed it or pummelled himself to no return.
He’s very conscious and open minded from his friends to the whole world around him. Squish loves animals and all the innocent things. He was born into a very loving family and you can see that, day to day, always kind and open to anyone he meets. His family has a cupboard of trophies from when he was a kid, a couple of pro boards now as well.
When I’m on tour with him, you see this look in his eye when he’s skating a spot, almost destroying it just by staring at it. The session might go on for an hour or two, this physical trance of sorts, but there’s never any negativity. He’s not throwing his board, he’s inside his mind, battling, then as soon as he lands he’s back to the most stand-up and beautiful human.
Matlok Bennett-Jones on Jack O’Grady
It was my first time in Australia, when we did the Carhartt and Pass~Port trip to the Northern Territory, and I’d seen
Greeced Up
in Athens so I knew who Squish was. That was where I met him for the first time. Afterwards, I went back to Sydney and stayed at his parent’s house for a while. They looked after me really well and Squish and I spent a lot of time driving around Sydney in his car. We became good friends just from that.
He was amazing then. It was before he was, like, Squish but you could tell. I think people had seen
glimpses but some skaters have ‘the part’ and
Kitsch
was that for him. It’s nice, those videos where a kid who isn’t as known is who everyone talks about. I was buzzing for him.
When he came to London, filming for all that stuff in
Kitsch
, I was living in my old place with Jamie Platt and he stayed at ours for a bit. I was working at
Slam City
at the time and I would go to work, they would come in, and I’d hear about what Squish did that day. It was that situation when someone visits somewhere and there’s all this stuff waiting to be done. Will [Miles] would take him to spots he’d taken us to, which we were wussing out on, or he thought, ‘I’ll see if he’ll skate it’ as a joke, and he just did it all. It was so easy for him. It became a funny thing, taking him everywhere to see if he could fuck a spot up. At the time, I didn’t realise but it’s pretty legendary that he just came to London and did all that.
It’s quite infectious, his view of the world and how he’s a pretty positive person. He never complains about anything. When you’re around him, you want to crack on.
Ph. James Griffiths.
Geoff Campbell on Jack O’Grady
Jack always had big dreams. I feel like he wanted to be a pro skater but something switched, which turned him from being a teenager to being really serious about skating. That’s around the time when there was talk of him getting on Pass~Port. He found his niche and he’s been developing that ever since. Jack, and I’d say this about Nick Boserio as well, they can sell you any trick, you know? The rawness makes it. When he lands and he’s squatting down, clinging on, he could do that on a five-stair and it would look exciting.
As a filmer, you deal with this over time: ‘gnarly skaters’ will say they want to do certain things and you’re, like, ‘Uh, yeah… Are you sure?’ You’re almost worried. You don’t really want to watch it but you have to film it and it’s scary. Jack can switch that to where it seems safe. Everyone thinks he’s a lunatic – and yes he is – but it’s calculated lunacy.
Making
Kitsch
, Jack lived in Sydney and I’ve always lived in Melbourne. He’d come to stay and film but I often find it frustrating, making videos, when you don’t have access to the people. He went to Europe [in 2019] and I remember getting clips from Will Miles and just being, like, ‘Fuck yes!’ There’s this noseblunt above Southbank coming in, there’s the heelflip over the wall at Stockwell coming in, all of these things. When you’re trying to make a video and ‘sell someone‘ as the gnarly skater they are, you always want more and I was stoked. That trip was a really defining one for him. That stuff’s really valuable – as much as it sounds sort of kooky to say it – but if you go somewhere and do monumental tricks, then people suddenly know who you are.
I have my vision of what parts should look like and Squish is prone to getting a lot of single bangers, hammers or whatever you want to call ‘em. I’m always encouraging him, like, ‘Let’s see you skate a little bit,’ – especially when we talk about his pro part, the solo part [in 2021] – that was a conscious thing of me going to Sydney and being, like, ‘we’re getting lines’. I guess the relationship there is him having his own ideas, giving him my observations, and having mutual respect for each other’s opinions. When you’re editing a video but not filming it, you’re sort of directing it, and when I was waiting for footage to roll in from Orion [Stefandis] it was the same feeling as when he was on that stint in London. He has an awareness of himself, a clear goal. He’s not trying to cop out and get a trick for the sake of getting a trick, he’s going back to spots, aiming high, getting things that people notice. These days, one trick that stands out is almost worth more than a video part. Jack’s trying to do a video part full of those tricks.
He has a really good family and it’s probably part of why he is who he is. He’s a genuine guy with a good upbringing. I’ve always had goings-on with his dad from him being really young to now. Recently, which I thought was cool, his dad reached out to me and was like, ‘Hey, how are you? Jack’s living in the States now and we miss him a lot. How do you think he’s doing?’ His dad has some understanding of what it takes to be a pro skater and I was like, ‘He’s going good.’
Without getting too soppy, over the years, filming with people, being in close quarters and going on trips; inawayIwassoinvolvedinallof this with Jack up until now. He’s moved to the States, he’s left home and it sort of feels like a child leaving – not that I know what that feels like – but I’m proud to say that he’s playing a good role of being a pro skater. He shows maturity in the way he deals with others, which, again, makes me proud because he’s playing out his dream and learning along the way, learning how to do it better.
Back to earlier, when he was young, he’d have these goals like wanting to get the cover of
The Skateboarder’s Journal,
win
Slam
‘s Skater of the Year, or get the cover of
Thrasher
.
Sometimes, I used to think, like, ‘Man, those are pretty big dreams.’ I wouldn’t say I doubted him but I’ve watched him achieve everything he’s claimed, which is pretty cool, but he does it in a classy way. He’s hungry, which I think is a good quality, but he’s got a subtleness about it.
Frontside lipslide from the ledge, London. Ph: James Griffiths.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 18, 2015
Cons One Star World Tour: Europe
Aaron Herrington, tight squeeze bump to bar ollie in Madrid, Spain.
This past July the Converse team rolled through Europe on the Cons One Star World Tour. The team travelled through England, Spain, France, Holland, Belgium and Germany so we caught up with Aaron Herrington who was on the whole journey to fill us in on what went down.
All photos by Sam Ashley
Aaron Herrington interview by Will Harmon
So Aaron obviously you’ve been to Europe a bit with Polar and I know you were over here just recently with the Cons #Pleasecharge thing… How different was this tour to the
#Pleasecharge
trip?
Aaron: It was different but it was really similar… um… Different in the way that there was just more people, there was like twenty of us, like fifteen skaters. But I mean as far as like… (It being different) I would just say more skaters and more skating and at the same time more goodbyes and more fun, and I mean more memories.
Yeah…
I would say it was a little larger budget so we were all going out a little bit, eating a little nicer, and nicer hotels, but besides that… You know I kind of almost prefer the #Pleasecharge setting where it’s less people and it’s not as glamorous; it makes it a little more genuine sometimes.
Yeah you feel like you get to know the cities a little more on the #Pleasecharge tour as you guys are going not just to skate a demo, but you are skating the cities and stuff…
Yeah completely, I mean when it’s a smaller crew and you have the ability to skate around, push around, then you get to be a skateboard tourist. But when there’s twenty of you and the focus is around demos, not street skating, then you know it kinda becomes a little annoying or stressful. When you know you’ll be in Berlin for two days, and then Antwerp for two days, Bordeaux for two days and Paris for two days then you don’t really get to fully enjoy or indulge in the city. But at the same time I guess that’s not really the point of us being there… But I guess it’s nicer when it’s small; you definitely get into more things when there are less people.
So you were on the US part of the One Star tour right?
Yep.
And how was this tour different to the American one?
The American tour was different because we were in passenger vans, versus this massive tour bus and jokingly there was like some van rivalry, you know what I mean like, after a weekend you know one van was against the other van and we were shooting fireworks at each other. I would just say that the US tour was, it’s hard to explain; the Europe tour was amazing because we were in Europe, and regardless of where we were like ‘oh we’re in Europe, we’re not in America’ you know even if it’s a small city in the UK, you know it’s awesome. In America, when you’re in the middle of America, like Little Rock, Arkansas or Oklahoma City, there’s not a whole lot to really indulge in you know – there’s not much history and if there is it’s American history, and there’s not much to do. I mean the cities don’t even have a million people in them any more so they’re not really like a metropolis, like the city its just a big mess of concrete that’s just been left there for 40 years.
Tom Remillard, frontside slash in Paris, France.
Yeah…
I’ll just say there’s not as much to do in the States. It’s not as pretty, doesn’t look as nice…
And was there like a favourite stop on the Europe one, like a favourite country for you or what not?
When we drove to Amsterdam from Antwerp it was a quick three-hour drive and it rained both the days we were in Amsterdam. So that finally gave us a chance to be tourists ourselves and not really have to focus on skating for a day or two. We got to party and go a little wild and have fun. So I would say Amsterdam was probably like the most fun place because there wasn’t really the stress of having to do a demo.
So Amsterdam was fun, that’s no surprise!
Yeah I mean we did do a demo but it was super low key, it was more like a ‘meet and greet’ and it was raining so you know we just had to really indulge in being tourists.
Sage Elsesser, hippie jump in Berlin.
Cool. So do you feel there’s a big difference to European skateboarding compared to skating in the States?
Yeah, I mean as far as the outlook of skating it’s still the same, but I mean just like the skate spots… There are amazing skate spots in Europe where there’ll be like plazas and crusty urban skate spots. I would say the biggest difference would be that you don’t really have to worry about the cops. You don’t really worry about police too much you don’t get kicked out as much I feel like.
Yeah I agree. It’s mainly security guards you deal with, not actual police.
I think in the States you just get hassled by the cops a lot just for being there but it seems like in Europe a lot of people actually understand skateboarding and kinda like it and get it.
Mike Anderson, switch wallie to switch ride in Bordeaux, France.
I feel like you rarely ever deal with the police over here. Whereas in the States it happens like every week or something…
Yeah and I mean it even goes further than just talking to the police, you always have to give them your ID and they make sure you’re not a criminal. In New York the amount of times I’ve known of people who ended up getting arrested just for skateboarding because they were in a playground without a child… Just certain things like that… It’s so absurd.
Yeah, abuse of power!
Yeah right, haha!
Tour bus life.
All right so this tour did have a lot of demos. How did you feel skating them and how do you feel about demos in general?
To be honest I really like demos. I think if it’s a good skatepark and a good turn out I think that kind of determines the vibe of the demo. I really liked the vibe of all the European demos. On the US tour we were staying in some of the smaller cities that don’t necessarily have this big skate scene so you go to these demos and these kids 1) don’t really give a shit and 2) not that they have to, but they have no idea who any of us are. So it’s just a normal day at the skatepark for them… I mean so we go to these demos in the States and we’re skating around with all these locals and it’s kinda hectic but then when we went to Europe it seemed as if the kids had a clue and were super interested and were super psyched to see Louie (Lopez) and Sage (Elsesser) and whoever. I mean at that point people actually came and sat down and let us skate and let us do an actual demonstration.
Mike Anderson, frontside boneless in Manchester.
That’s cool. So what do you think about the hometown heroes and stuff that won’t stop skating do you think that’s a bad thing or do you think it’s all right?
I actually think it’s really good because sometimes those dudes really rip, like when we were in Manchester for example there was this dude that was just ripping and doing the craziest manual tricks. He was covering his eyes and doing all this weird stuff like a manual trick into primo stall, and you know flipping his board around in his hand, then back to primo stall, and then flip it to manual then nollie flip out and churning out all these crazy tricks. It’s nice having those dudes take the pressure off us a little bit.
Louie Lopez, backside smith grind in Berlin, Germany.
Oh yeah that’s great… I never thought of it like that…
Yeah I mean when there’s other people skating then that’s a good thing because it kinda takes the attention off us a little bit and puts it into the locals. It makes it not so stressful for us and we can relax and skate a little easier… (Laughs)
Ok, so here’s a funny question: How were the donuts in Europe? Sam (Ashley) was saying people were bringing you donuts to the demos…
Yeah they’re good! When we were at the Riot Distribution shop (In Bordeaux) they had like two-dozen donuts there and I was like: ‘ah man I just ate food! I can’t even fully indulge in this!’ But I would say the best donuts are… They’re almost like beignets but they’re like a jelly filled donut and they have them in Bordeaux, but they’re like Nutella filled donuts.
Oh wow…
They’re so amazing, like slamming!
Sick…
And ah… I mean pretty much any pastry in Europe is always on point. It’s always good. We seem to ruin croissants in America…
Aaron Herrington, ollie-in in Manchester, UK.
Yeah they’re much better over here, especially in France.
Yeah especially France, and just anything that’s like a breaded, pastry product in Europe is always amazing. And then there’s always Krispy Kreme everywhere too. Krispy Kreme’s amazing.
Indeed it is! Ok thanks Aaron. That about wraps it up. See you over here again for the Polar video premiere!
For more One Star World Tour photos head
here
.
Tom Remillard, 50-50 in Berlin.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  May 9, 2018
Trousers: Some Thoughts Pertaining to
Trousers are a complicated business in these post-post-modern times. In previous decades, the semiotics of leg-wear were simpler and more transparent; from Jimmy’Z to Blind jeans, your sartorial statement was a clear product of its times.
But in the clouded cultural miasma of the 21st century can trousers actually mean anything anymore? At the turn of the century it now looks like the swishy tech-pant was the last gasp of Modernism before skaters (so reactionary despite the dynamic nature of our physical pursuit) embraced the omnipresent polyester work pant and knitted hat. Where once we were progressive and fearless in looking forward, we now appropriate workwear in a last, desperate attempt to cling on to something real.
Does tucking in your shirt really add meaning to your outfit?
Are Gilbert Crockett’s ubiquitous, magisterial chinos a last cry for authenticity as we drown in the Society of the Spectacle? Or is any meaning and power they might possess diluted or negated by that very phenomenon? Is the universal, democratic sweatpant a hope for the future, or is that particular garment’s lack of structure symptomatic of these empty times?
It’s like you need a degree in philosophy to be able to make sense of it all.
Where do we go from here? Pleating might perhaps add some structural interest to the chino, but it’s still a piece of clothing that originated in the mid-19th century. Those looking further afield into uncharted waters might consider the plus-fours or a pair of breeches. Perhaps a full set of bleu de travail offers the ultimate in working class realness, or perhaps you will just end up looking like Monty Don.
I don’t have any easy answers. The magical power of skateboarding is its ability to transform and repurpose the world around us. Maybe we just need to do the same with our trousers.
A collection of some of the bravest moments in the history of skateboarding trou' along with some of @jamesjarvis' thoughts on the matter. With @brianwenning732, @stephenlawyer, @garretthill, @steviewilliams, Jason Dill, Ben Jobe, @ceeblues, @igeiland and @brandonbiebel.
A post shared by
Free Skateboard Magazine
(@freeskatemag) on
May 9, 2018 at 8:50am PDT

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 20, 2020
7 Day Project – Woodstock
Auguste Bouznad, ride-on switch crooked grind. All photos in Paris and by Alex Pires.
It’s Friday, 12:30pm and we’re at Greg’s house with Auguste. Since Monday now we’ve been trying to shoot photos for this Free article but it’s not exactly been going as planned… The hiccup is that just as
we got released from lockdown two weeks ago, a new incarnation of Bastille
was born from the ashes of the old spot and it has kind of become the new vortex. As in every single session starts there and ends there and the furthest we’ve managed to get from it so far has only been a few blocks. And even then, nobody was kidding themselves, deep down we all knew it was just to stock up on supplies and head back. It’s off the back of realising this that Greg came up with a plan: he’d get each member of the crew to send him a trick idea for a certain spot so that the day’s destination (/burden) would be decided at random.
It’s now 12:45 and we’re looking at 30 bits of paper in a basket. After one hell of a hectic Facetime it’s announced that fate has chosen Auguste and that we’ll be heading to Le Dôme today… The call ends, they start talking about the previous night’s shenanigans, something dodgy to do with a wardrobe getting knocked over…
– Alex Pires
Kevin Rodrigues, gap to backside tailside.
Alex (Pires): Looks like it’s your turn today Auguste! We’re going to have to get bikes and head over there…
(Everyone laughs)
Auguste (Bouznad): Well at least we won’t be starting at Woodstock…
Alex: I think you might need to explain what Woodstock is… It’s been this week’s nickname for the new Bastille spot right?
Greg (Cuadrado): Yeah why do you guys even call it that?
Auguste: My girlfriend came up with it… She’d just come back from a weekend away and was like, ‘so how’s it been going at Woodstock?’
Alex: In reference to the partying or the skating?
(When this interview is taking place the lockdown measures are only just beginning to get lifted.)
Auguste: Just because of the partying ha ha. We’re basically chilling there every evening… And the fact
that there’s all those bits of wood from the construction site lying everywhere.
Greg: I didn’t really like the nickname at first but weirdly after my first evening there I instantly got it… Ha ha.
Alex: At the same time Greg you’ve got a bit of a special relationship with the spot, which goes way back to before it was renovated and even before République was around.
Greg: Yeah the three-set; that’s where I met Roman (Gonzalez), Hadrien (Buhannic), Kev (Rodrigues), Croco and the whole gang. That’s where most of us started skating. It was a meeting point, where we’d always play games of s.k.a.t.e. Plus the older guys would skate there… We’d spend days on end there just doing nothing… Actually I guess we did skate quite a lot of flatground there. We liked it because it was neither Bercy nor Le Dôme… Like it was pretty mellow.
Auguste: I always knew Bastille was an important spot, but for us it was just three stairs… I liked the spot but we had République.
Roman Gonzalez, frontside wallride.
Alex: Don’t these first sessions at Woodstock remind you a little bit of the early days of République?
Greg: What’s certain is that both of those spots really help bring together the scene. The first day at Bastille when I showed up there was already one of the older heads skating it and I was showing up with some of the younger guys… The next day it was 2-3 older heads, a few dudes from other crews, kids from the neighbourhood and so on. Also at the beginning of République it was the same thing, like we were skating the plaza before it was completely finished so they had no choice but to open it to the public. The builders here at the Bastille spot told us that they’d be working on it for another six months… One of the architects of the new Bastille was at the spot the other day though and apparently when they designed it skateboarding was actually intended here in the corner of the spot that we skate, that’s why there’s almost no gaps between the paving slabs on this bit and a wider gap between the slabs everywhere else around it. The other great thing about this spot is that unlike République you don’t have the six pedestrian crossings feeding people into the spot… I just really hope that we won’t one day end up saying ‘ah remember Bastille? It was so much better at the very beginning…’
Alex: Auguste when you started skating République already existed right?
Auguste:  No, I started a little bit before that… I think my first missions with the boys from Noisy were maybe to Le Dôme or Pantin Skatepark, but I do remember seeing Répu being under construction… Then later on one my mates from Noisy took me there and I managed to memorise the route on the metro so I’d just go all the time. In fact it was the only journey I actually knew off by heart. The second day I went there I got my bag stolen ha ha. That’s where I met Aurélien (Barcelo), Samy (Sebaoui) and all of those boys. The spot has been through so many different stages… The wooden manual pad days, the water mirror, all the different ledges, etc. The central cafe that burnt and what was left of it… It became our zone.
Alastair Pathé, wallie 180.
Alex: And how did you guys feel about the endless stream of visiting American pros?
Auguste: I don’t know for us it would sort of just happen and we wouldn’t really realise.
Greg: Tell the Hoodie story. (Laughs)
Auguste: Are you sure?
Greg: Yeah it’s fine… Lucien if you’re reading on we’ll send you another one straight away if you want one!
Auguste: Okay well Lucien Clarke was at République for a Supra demo with Lizard King and stuff and me and my mates were lurking by the wooden manual pad. Lucien comes over, drops all of his shit off including this Supreme hoodie. Everyone else clocked it as well. He skates around, goes to chill a bit further with all the Supra dudes… We look at the hoodie and realise that that’s probably 200 euros chilling right there. So we start sitting closer and closer to it…
Alex: Was it just the hoodie or is this about to get serious?
Auguste: Ha ha no no it was just the hoodie… And a few cherries actually… We just thought it wouldn’t be hard for him to get another one! Sorry Lucien!
Alex: I don’t think he’ll hold it against you ha ha. I remember that whole period when there were a lot of demos at République… You were still working at the skate shop Greg and we noticed that way less kids would come to the shop signings and stuff since they knew they’d get to see all the pros at the spot at some point anyway.
Greg: Yeah I mean it’s true that it’s changed, like before if you were going to see them it sort of had to be the signing; the Bercy/Le Dôme missions were pretty much secret. You’d barely see them. These days the pros just roll through the plaza almost every day when they’re in town. And if it’s between getting your little poster signed for a second in the shop or watching a pro skate in person a Répu, maybe even knick a hoodie and a few cherries… We all know what we’d rather do!
Auguste: Yeah there’s a bit of that but also there’s the whole Internet/Instagram thing… Like you just see them way more now, it’s not the same. But yeah having regular demos at your local spot definitely changes things.
Greg: You might not get as many people showing up as if it was a demo for the Teenage Tour (a series of nationwide contests that took place in France in the early 2000s with demos from US pros), but if your demo takes place at the skate spot, you’re still going to get a lot of kids.
Auguste Bouznad, ollie.
Alex: Also just think about the principle of it… Like now the pros come to where the skaters are rather than making them go who knows where for demos. Having a skater like Koston on a bench next to kids at Répu these days almost feels normal whereas before you couldn’t go anywhere near them… They had this whole superstar aura to them that isn’t quite the same anymore.
Greg: That being said, Auguste, I don’t know about you but if there was a big Supra demo at Bastille tomorrow I don’t know if I’d be that stoked… At the same time what do I know? Maybe kids would be into it.
Alex: You mentioned Instagram earlier Auguste, when you started skating was it already about?
Auguste: No, that came a little bit later. I don’t really remember when but yeah it wasn’t around yet.
Greg: At first for us it was just this jokes thing we’d clocked.
Auguste: I didn’t associate it with skating at all at first, that came after. We were all about just typing ‘skate’ into YouTube. Those 15-second Blobys videos were super sick though!
Alex: Was the first skate video you watched on YouTube?
Auguste: No it wasn’t actually, I think it was one that Greg gave me when he was working at Nozbone. It was Frame by Frame with
that Oscar Candon part
! By Olivier Fanchon. I remember it blowing my mind.
Greg: Yeah that was mental; Oscar must have been 16-17 in that right?
Auguste: The cutoff shots, the stop motion and the handmade titles, all the cruising through Paris, the night skating… I remember thinking it was so sick.
Greg Cuadrado, backside smith grind.
Alex: Oscar had to wear the same clothes for that whole stop motion intro… And it took a week.
Greg: Yeah that video was great, shout out to Olivier Fanchon!
Auguste: And Oscar Candon! I probably still have the DVD at home. Thank god they used to give us DVDs at the shop because when we’d just stick ‘skate’ into YouTube it would take us on some wild journeys… We’d often just end up watching ‘Ghetto vs. Punk’ style compilations, that sort of thing. When Romain Batard moved to Paris I remember it impressed me ‘cause I remembered his name from the Frame by Frame video. I really sessioned that thing… Even Santi (Santiago Sasson) was in it!
Alex: What about you Greg?
Greg: Mine wasn’t quite as glorious; it was Transworld’s Transmission 7 that came free with Tricks Mag. It was back when some mags came with a video.
Alex: Oh yeah we all got that one. Coming back to République… Is that where you guys met?
Auguste: Yeah but they were the older guys at the spot…
Greg: I guess it wasn’t actually that many of them (‘the kids’) and they were always all together at the spot practically every day so it happened naturally. Plus we’d see them progress…
Auguste: We had to be careful around you guys though… Especially with Karl (Salah)! He definitely had a go at us quite a few times ha ha. Especially Samy and Sauvageon… They’d get rinsed. (Laughs)
Greg: Shall I get the coffees on? Shall we head out soon?
Auguste: For sure!
Marca Barbier, gap to frontside noseblunt.
Alex: Do you remember a frontside wallride we shot about 2-3 years ago? We even shot a portrait to go with it but Greg never sent the text on time for it to get used for your Vos Gueules (check out article in Sugar Magazine).
Greg: Mea Culpa!
Auguste: Oh yeah! I had no idea that’s what happened. Thanks Greg! Dodged a bullet there… I probably look ridiculous in that photo.
Alex: So until now you’ve never had a photo in a mag?
Auguste: Well apart from you I don’t really know any photographers… Actually maybe I shot a few photos with Noni (Augustin Giovannoni) at Répu but don’t know if they got used anywhere.
Greg: I guess it’s not always easy to get your hands on the mags…
Alex: Yeah which brings us to the topic of Instagram and how that just fits into your pocket as opposed to a mag that’s available at the nearest skate shop (if they haven’t run out)…
Greg: Yeah and Instagram has that whole playful side to it. You have this thing that allows you to film, make funny little edits and share them straight away. Before you didn’t as easily have access to the whole video aspect of it and stuff…
Auguste: That being said right now between James (Cruickshank), Noni and Val (Ferreira) we’re kind of doing alright for filmers!
Tom O’Reilly, 50-50 / smith grind.
Alex: You’re right actually; it’s been a while since I’ve seen this many filmers on one spot in Paris.
Greg: Yeah we’re stacking; we’ll see how it turns out!
Auguste: Yeah and working on something proper always gets you more hyped!
Greg: In terms of motivation I think the fact that we’ve just come out of lockdown also had a lot to do with how much everyone is on it.
Alex: How was the lockdown for you guys?
Greg: I think most of us generally followed the rules. There was a ban on any kind of exercise in groups and then quite quickly even if you were to do it alone it had to be before 10am or after 7pm. Otherwise the first fine was 135 euros.
Auguste: And no further than a kilometre away from your house!
Greg: Neither Bastille nor Répu was in that 1km radius for me. I’d go to Voltaire but even that technically was too far…
Auguste: Me and Alas (Alastair Pathé) got fined at Répu. The cops were telling us, ‘all you skaters are shits; never respect anything!’
Greg: Yeah at first they really wanted to make a point of it. Nobody really knew what to do… Being able to see each other again pretty much freely definitely did us all a lot of good…
Alex: I guess the only real difference from before is not getting public transport now.
Greg: Yeah but I mean we’re almost all on bikes.
Auguste: Which is kind of good! We’re spending all our time outside, finding spots…
Greg: The first 10 days back outside were so intense that it felt like we’d been on a trip or something. Especially when for two months all you’d ever hear about is this virus, just managing to not think about that for four hours in a row felt like a victory.
Auguste: At first I was just so stoked to see everyone… I didn’t necessarily think we’d all be seeing each other every day like we did. It happened naturally.
Greg: And we got really lucky with the weather… It was such a blessing.
Alex: That first week did you guys also have the feeling that it was too good to be true, like it might not last?
Greg: Definitely, which makes you enjoy it way more.
Auguste: And we had Woodstock!
Greg: And when the terraces have just reopened, you haven’t seen your mates in ages: it’s pretty hard to end the session at 7pm.
Auguste: We even tried to send Noni into space! Ha ha!
Greg: Fuck we’re late; shall we grab the bikes and meet the others?

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 5, 2021
2021 Skateboarding Olympics Recap
Sport: ‘An athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess’.
Surprise surprise skateboarding is exactly that, it always has been. All we’ve seen here with the Olympics is what it looks like when it’s been almost completely stripped of all the other components that make it more than a sport. Everyone is skating the same park that looks like it’s on the moon (as opposed choosing what part of a city they think would be fun/interesting to reappropriate), the way it’s captured couldn’t be more removed from what we’re used to seeing from our beloved filmers and photographers in skateboard media, and there certainly won’t be any discussions in the pub about what kind of trou someone’s wearing or what song they chose to skate to. It’s ‘just tricks’. But to be honest that’s fine… I don’t think anyone was expecting this to be the same experience as watching a
Tom Knox part
. Plus the overall goal here is obviously completely different, and we do firmly believe that the democratisation of skateboarding is inherently a good thing. If skateboarding brought you as much joy as it’s brought us, it would be pretty fucking selfish not to want other people to get into it and experience that…
But also lol what an absolute shit show:
We mentioned the way skateboarding was captured above (which as a magazine is obviously going to mean a lot to us) so maybe let’s start with that. When you leave the job to people that have nothing to do with our culture the result is generally likely to look like this (although
at least
in that one you can kind of see the obstacle):
Or this:
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Vern Laird (@vernlaird)
All the commentary stuff was also pretty jokes. Was that a hardflip attempt? Nollie heel? (next couple of slides)
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Alex Doyle (@alexdoyle)
These guys casually rinsing Jagger Eaton’s style was also pretty nice:
#SkateTwitter
requested, I delivered.
https://t.co/TLFxt3u480
pic.twitter.com/ng2gWPKHWo
— Rémi Martinho (@RemiMartinho)
July 25, 2021
Okay so ‘Street’ can absolutely not take place in the streets and must to be confined to a park, and Park is actually skating a bowl. Makes sense right?
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by À PROPOS (@aproposskatemag)
Then obviously any kind of mainstream news outlet coverage was always going be gold:
😬 Micky Papa won’t be making that mistake again! 👟
Onwards and upwards for the Canadian though, as he’s still got the tricks to go.
Follow the men’s skateboarding heats on BBC One now ➡
https://t.co/8fahsxh9VX
#bbcolympics
#Tokyo2020
pic.twitter.com/bonRrIUOGq
— BBC Sport (@BBCSport)
July 24, 2021
What was very much not funny on the other hand was this (’cause yeah, uh
Tony Hawk is
53
):
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Kevin Parrott (@kevinparrott)
With all that in mind, it goes without saying that the level skateboarding we witnessed was pretty unbelievable, and that we’re truly blessed to have people like
Alexis Sablone,
Oski
or
Vincent Milou
out there representing what we do on a global scale like this. No matter how cringe some of this stuff may be, there will be councils out there who in the past reduced what we do to anti-social behaviour (or pretended it didn’t exist) finally deciding to take it seriously. It’s inevitable.
Although that’s not to say there’s still a long way to go, especially judging by the mayor of Manchester’s reaction (worth reading some of the comments here):
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Tom Day (@t0mday)
This is of course by no means an in depth analysis of ‘what the Olympics means for skateboarding’ or anything like that. This is just someone – who to be honest couldn’t make it through that much of it – listing a few things that made them laugh and a few things that didn’t at all. And obviously it doesn’t mean we didn’t enjoy any of it… Seeing 16-year-old Funa Nakayama front crook the world’s biggest skatepark handrail (+ just the general
vibe and camaraderie
at both women’s events) for instance was fucking incredible. Plus I probably watched t
his clip of Alexis
making the Olympic village ground shake about 50 times… But it’s important to remember that in the grand scheme of things, all this is really not that deep. And reading stories like
this Guardian piece
about 46-year-old Dallas Oberholzer who skated in the bowl comp for SA are a good reminder of that (honestly read it). It might make some people get more into competitive skating, it might make a few of us winge or laugh about it for a few weeks but skateboarding is still just what you make of it, and realistically, are you going to give a shit about any of this next time you step on your board or wax a curb? It’s not going to change the physical act of what we do or why we do it, it just means there’s going to be more of us out there having a good time with it 🙂

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  March 5, 2019
The Trouble We Cause
Javier Mendizabal, frontside wallride. Photo: Sam Ashley.
Words by
James Davis
, courtesy of our friends at
Parade
.
Skateboarders are a right pain. The streets they roll down, the curbs they grind up, the noise they make, their language, their behaviour, clothes, speech. These free nausketeers will stop at nothing to impose their selfish way upon you and your calm and your morning coffee.
They seem to be idiots. They break rules because they can, break things because they can. They vandalise street furniture across the city, and will do the same in your home. They’ll drink all your beer, clean out your fridge and make out with your loved one. They hardly wash, never say sorry, and happily divert your taxes to repairing the damage they cause to the city and to their own mindless bodies.
And so the conventional thinking goes. The unwitting passerby, the old school friend, the parent of a teenage skateboarder will recognise in these cliches some elements of truth, fear and little sign of hope.
Let’s focus on the most visible of these supposed infractions: skateboarders running riot across the city.
Skateboards can be noisy, but cities far louder. This doesn’t stop skateboard clatter being a frequent complaint from citizens. Often a reason to start an argument, throw a punch or call the police. The sounds of skateboarding are intermittent, bashy, accompanied by yells and the occasional bang of tails on concrete. Because the noise is less common, it is noticed more.
But the real reason people don’t like the sound of skating is because sound is the easiest thing to pinpoint when they simply don’t like or understand skating at all. The noise complaint is a decoy from the real offence: skateboarders acting outside the norm of social design and simply must be stopped. They are doing strange tricks on innocent obstacles and this makes a lot of people feel uncomfortable, as if Juggalos gathered on a pristine bowling green.
Skaters leave their mark. Few parts of their roving territory are immune to the subtle but permanent impact of grinds, slides, wall rides and so on. The gouging traces of paint, polyurethane and aluminium on masonry, stone, metal and wood can eventually be noticed by even the least cognisant passersby.
But let’s think about these public spaces for a minute. What exactly is a curb? It’s a design to protect pedestrians from a car-centric city. It’s not actually person-friendly, it’s machine-friendly, shifting people off to the side and ensuring vehicles are central and flowing.
Most of our cities are designed car-first, even older European cities are designed carriage-first which is the same thing. Roads, curbs, highways, junctions, roundabouts, barriers and more fill our cities and in the 21st century the best thing you can do with these remnants of 1950s’ automobile fantasy is use them creatively. Yes mark them, grind them, use them the wrong way, use them your way.
Rob Mathieson, switch crooked grind. Photo: Sam Ashley.
These objects are designed against you as an individual, for an unsustainable dream proven wrong and often corrupt. Using outmoded street furniture as creatively as skateboarders do is our best hope at reclaiming car environments for people, revitalising town centres and activating abandoned spaces no longer relevant for today’s tastes.
Skaters make use of everything skateable. This includes friendlier human designs such as benches, planters and steps. But these objects are not innocent either. They carry echoes of offence against the freedom of citizens. Planners use subtle cues to direct pedestrians here but not there, architects place low-level objects to make high level buildings look better, councils dictate rules of acceptable behaviour in public spaces, enhanced by placement of street furniture to make citizens do this but not that.
Worse, in many cities we find private spaces pretending to be public. Skyscraper plazas, residential forecourts, shopping centres; each designed as if they are open, but each firmly closed to genuine public engagement. You can just about have your lunch in these places, if you are the right social group, dressed appropriately and don’t stay too long or eat unauthorized food.
Skateboarding is the finest shortcut to all these affronts, offering a way for individuals to flout needless civic regulations, escape damaging social prescriptions and bypass deceitful corporate intent.
Skaters question order with delight. Their most visible trouble-making is an important part of our cultural heritage. It’s a call to arms against institutional rigidity, faux-freedom and designated normality. It’s pure fun, downright stupid and super important.
Skateboarders have gumption. They put effort in, perseverance, commitment, suffer pain, humiliation, they push themselves bravely and needlessly, all for what might be thought of as a selfish act.
But skating is in fact communal. Not communal as in skaters preferring to skate in groups, nor in skaters forming strong and open communities everywhere. Skating is a communal act that brings radically different neighbours into radically different neighbourhoods. It sets an impeccable social and civic standard of support, encouragement, growth, creativity, lateral thinking and a healthy disrespect for those with unfriendly agendas.
It’s in the progression of citizenship that sets skateboarders apart, that gives them the right to make minor amounts of noise, mess, disturbance, all for the positive impact of demonstrating modern freedom. The trouble we cause sheds light on the impositions others cause us.
The trouble we cause is worth all the trouble we get.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  May 30, 2017
Azzurro with Mauro Caruso – interview and edit
In 1968 there was a large earthquake in Sicily and it completely destroyed the small farming town of Gibellina. Shortly thereafter the local government decided to rebuild Gibellina as Gibellina Nuova, a new town 11 kilometres down the road. The new Gibellina was designed to be a destination for art and sculpture. Famous artists from throughout Italy came to Gibellina Nuova to work and sculpt in an effort to rebuild and recreate this Sicilian town. The artist
Alberto Burri
even erected a sculpture in the old Gibellina: he encased the entire ruins of the old town in concrete, except for the old streets, so that tourists could walk in between the new concrete sculpture. Gibellina was designed to be a new destination in Sicily for art-lovers and tourists alike.
But somewhere something went wrong… No one came to Gibellina Nuova. The word didn’t get out… Most Italians have never heard of Gibellina let alone the rest of the world. Gibellina Nuova became somewhat of a ghost town, but a ghost town does come with its advantages: it’s great for skateboarders.
And so when Sicilian skateboarder Mauro Caruso discovered Gibellina in 2011 he new he had to do something with the place. This turned out to be not an easy task, but let’s let Mauro expand on that.
Mauro Caruso Interview by Will Harmon
Photos by Sam Ashley
How did you hear about Gibellina?
Mauro Caruso: It was a friend of mine from Milan who went to this exhibition and they had photos of the place and he was like: ‘whoa! What is this place?’ and he saw it was in Sicily. Then he saw this TV show and they were talking about Gibellina and they were talking about it being a ghost town. So my friend called me and told me about this crazy town on my island that I should go check out. So I made the four-hour drive there to check it out. I saw the old and new cities and immediately I thought it was uncommon to have something like this in Sicily. There are no other cities in Sicily that have these huge sculptures and plazas like that so of course I knew I had to do something.
Ollie at Ruderi di Gibellina, a sculpture built on top of the original town of Gibellina, which was destroyed by an earthquake in 1968.
So this was in 2011?
Yes, after we saw the place we thought: ‘let’s make a documentary.’ So I knew I had to speak to a filmer and that’s how it all got started.
But this documentary never happened right?
Right, so my friend who found the city he has a friend who used to skate who films and he’s living in Hollywood right now. So we hit him up like ‘hey man we found this town, do you wanna do something?’ And he went crazy for it. So we all went there for two weeks in 2011 and we managed to get everything; we worked so hard. We skated every day and worked real hard and then the director went back (to the States) to do some other jobs and he was going to get back to this project. He was looking for people to do aftereffects and people to give more money and then suddenly he just disappeared.
Wallride.
Ah you must have been bummed after all that hard work!
He would hit us up every six months or so and say: ‘don’t worry guys I’m working on it; it’s going to happen. Sorry it’s taking so long.’ And then years were passing by and I did my
Modica clip
and my friend who I filmed that with asked me to go back to Gibellina. ‘Hey man I remember you went to Gibellina, let’s go back and do the same clip like we did in Modica.’ And I was like ‘no, no this other guy is gonna get mad; it was a big project and I don’t want to ruin it.’ But he finally convinced me and we went back four years later from the original time I was there. So this was in 2015.
And this is the time you went for the photos in this piece with Sam Ashley?
Yes and this time I decided to get Carhartt involved and Lakai (Mauro’s former shoe sponsor) involved. And it was Bertrand (Trichet) who worked for Carhartt at the time that suggested we get you guys (
Free
) to come shoot. So we went and got a bunch of photos but the footage didn’t really come out. The filmer wasn’t on point. So I knew then that I needed to come back again and re-film stuff again.
Ok so going back a little, I should have asked you this earlier, but do you think you were the first to ever skate there?
Yeah we were totally the first ones to ever skate there. There were no marks on the spots. But, there is a huge white church there. It’s a huge white ball behind these yellow buildings. And so we were talking to the priest there and he showed us some photos of the church that… Ok so when they built the church, five years later it fell down. This was in the nineties, and he showed us some photos of people with boards and roller-skates riding inside – because if you go inside the church it’s like a huge quarter-pipe. Of course you can’t skate it anymore, but when it first collapsed the priest let people come in there and help clean up. Some of the people’s kids had boards and roller-skates and he let them have a go.
Switch ollie at the Secret Garden.
Ok back to 2015… We had to hold onto those photos from Sam’s trip to Gibellina for quite a bit. Can you tell the readers why?
So I knew I had to go back and re-film the tricks I did there that Sam shot photos of. I wanted to get properly filmed footage, but before I had a chance to go back I tore my ACL. So I had to just wait almost a year for that to get better again.
Yeah and in that time we decided to come out with the photos in
Free
that Sam shot (Dreams in Progress article,
Free
Issue 9, Nov/Dec 2016). But with that, we decided to keep the location secret.
Yeah because it was this big project that I spent so much time on and if we had put the name of the place then who knows how many people would go there. Maybe they’d ruin the place or whatever, but it’s also because we’d been there a few times and we got to meet the people who lived there. You meet the old guys and you got to know their stories… One guy told us his dad had died in the huge earthquake they had. So I got kind of emotional about it and I wanted to do something good and not just go there to break the marble or whatever. I didn’t want to fuck up the city just because it was a ghost town and then also we met the locals – so we just decided we didn’t want random people to go there and ruin the place or have a bad situation with the local townspeople.
Yeah we didn’t want to blow the place up before you got to release your edit. You had so much history going there and of course we wanted your knee to get better so you could go back and film there more. And so you did go back there a few more times…
Yeah so when my knee was better we went back with the
La Dolce Vita
crew and we just brought all the cameras we had. And then after that I went back with Ludo (Ludovic Azemar). And then he came and of course he saw the place and he started filming his own things and then his footage was different than we’d filmed with the Dolce Vita crew so we decided to make two videos. Why not eh? So we did one more Carhartt mission with Ludo, Joseph (Biais) and Felipe (Bartolome) and that’s the whole thing pretty much.
Backside nosebluntslide.
With all those visits you must have spoken to everyone in that town by now! I mean the residents there have really been through a lot. Must be some great stories…
Yeah the time Sam came we spent a month there and then we went back for another month so by the end I must have met all 1500 people in the town. It was super sick to talk to them and they were all really nice. The locals would give us fresh olive oil, fresh tomatoes and fresh cheese. We talked to so many people. Where we were staying was by a farm and every morning we’d see the farmer passing by with his sheep and goats. The earthquake was in ’68 and for almost fourteen years the residents lived in tents. So some of the people I was talking to were born in the tents and spent their first ten years in the tents.
And what did the locals think about their new town being rebuilt as like an art project or sorts?
In the beginning everyone had hope for this new town. The mayor at the time was a well-travelled artistic guy and he brought all his friends to do art workshops with the kids at the schools, but nobody understood it. It was a farming village and everyone there was used to dealing with animals and agriculture.
Ollie.
So why do you think the new artistic town didn’t become a big destination for Sicilians and tourists from elsewhere?
Because in the end the basic problem is it’s still Sicily. You can have these grand intentions but it’s still Sicily and with that comes all these problems with the mafia and the local mentality. The old town was built in the valley and the mafia owned the valley. So just to get the land for the new town… I have no idea what happened there. It has to do with the mafia and there’s a lot of speculation about corruption and missing money. Also one of the other problems with the place is there’s only two bars and one hotel. And just recently they made an exit to the freeway. But before there was no exit and this town is in the middle of nowhere – to get there it’s like impossible.
Oh I see.
Yeah but some people who are in their thirties now, they went off when they were younger to Milan, Rome, etc. to study and now they’ve come back to Gibellina like five years ago and they are trying to push the city now. One of those people owns one of the bars there and he’s trying to do parties and get people there. This same guy is doing a
Twitter campaign
to get Banksy to come there. Everyday he’s posting a photo of the city and saying: ‘hey Banksy, please come! You’re gonna love this place!’ So every day he’s posting a random photo of the town and asking Banksy to come visit.
Mauro Caruso, Kickflip.
So how did the locals react to you coming there for skateboarding?
They were not even understanding (what we were doing). We told them we were doing a video all around Gibellina with our skateboards and people would laugh. ‘That’s crazy’ they would say. I’ll show them when the video is out. I was talking to a guy there and I said ‘maybe if you want, we can do a premiere for the whole town you know? Maybe we could get some photos printed and get a room for it…’ They were like ‘whoa really? You want to do this in this town?’
That would be a good idea. Ok so just to tally up now, how many different filmers have you been to Gibellina with now?
(Laughs) Ok so 2011 when I first went it was two filmers. Then in 2015 it was my other friend, but he bailed out on me – and it was his whole idea! He convinced me to go back to Gibellina! Then I almost brought my other friend who lives in Berlin now, but he bailed too. Then I went with the Dolce Vita guys and the last couple times with Ludo.
Frontside 180.
So after these edits come out do you think other skaters are going to want to come out to Gibellina?
Possibly. I mean with
Modica
, when we did that a lot of people who came to Sicily wanted me to take them there. I took the Dime guys there recently. So man Gibellina… People will probably be like ‘yo man let’s go; let’s check it out!’
So now that the final Gibellina project you’ve been working on for all these years is finished, do you plan on going back there? I know you talked about the exhibition idea…
Oh man I’m not… If I go back it’s just to party with the locals because that place is just cursed. You know when I said we went with the Carhartt boys? So there was this guy from Madrid, Roger (Gonzalez), who was shooting 3D photos. You may have seen the 3D photos in other Carhartt projects, but anyways, he came for ten days and he shot so many photos and he was super stoked. He was like ‘this place is crazy. How it’s built it’s like you get there and there are ten different angles.’ Ok so he goes back home and I guess the camera was broken; he didn’t shoot anything. His shutter speed broke so all the photos were black.
Oh wow that’s bad luck.
Oh man Gibellina… It’s really bad luck this place.
View Gallery | 37 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  January 28, 2016
Yann Horowitz Interview
Backside lipslide in Durban, South Africa. Ph. Sam Clark
Yann-Xavier Horowitz isn’t exactly a household name – but not many, if any, skateboarders from South Africa are internationally famous. If there was a South African skater to come along and change that then my bet is on Yann. Yann has been making quite a name for himself through his travels on his useless wooden toy so we caught up with him in late September whilst on a trip to Lyon. Mr Horowitz kindly filled us in on the South African skate scene, various travel tales and his near-death experience.
Interview by Will Harmon
Yann, so what brings you to Lyon?
Well
Familia
got a hold of me and told me they were going to do another trip and that they were going to try and finish up their video by the end of the year. So I just saved up all my money and bought a ticket here. It’s just to chill with good friends, film as much as possible and drink cold beer. I’m really enjoying it at the moment… Lyon is amazing!
How did you hook up with Familia in the first place?
I was skating for this company called KFD in South Africa (SA). They’ve been around in SA for a while, but I wasn’t really happy with where they were taking me and what they were doing. So I moved to London in 2010 and it was the first time I met all the Familia guys properly and I just kind of asked them… I was like: ‘Hey you guys, any space? If I get a sponsorship tape ready would you consider putting me on?’ And I guess I just got along with the dudes really well and slowly but surely they started sending me boards.
And can you tell us a little about the Familia brand?
So Familia started in Johannesburg, South Africa awhile back. I can’t say the exact year because it was quite before my time… I was still in like a helmet then. (Laughs) So
Gavin Morgan
and Adrian Day from SA started it and then Gavin ended up moving to London so it kind of branched out from there. The brand is mainly in SA and the UK.
Rock to fakie in Antwerp. Ph. Sam Ashley
Can you tell us about growing up – how were your first introduced to skateboarding in South Africa?
So I grew up in this sleepy little beach town just outside of Durban. It had one street, one shop, one bar and everyone surfed in my town. And I was the only kid that had a skateboard and I didn’t really tell anyone this at the time, but I had this big fear of the ocean. I couldn’t really get out in the water because if my feet can’t touch the floor I’d freak out. So I just decided to be a land dweller and work on skateboarding. So all my friends just carried on surfing and I was the one that branched out and made friends with the guys more inland in the city. My mum would drive me every weekend to the city. I kind of lead two lives: weekdays were the beach and school and then the weekends were the dirty city and skateboarding. It worked out really well: street smarts and laid back.
So I know you live in Cape Town now, what’s the skate scene like there and in SA in general?
So the skate scene in Cape Town has grown recently. Funnily enough Cape Town is the worst city for skateboarding spots-wise compared to Joburg and Durban. But Cape Town is kind of like the younger city, the party city, so half of the scene has moved there, which kind of makes it tighter. Half the scene is in Cape Town and it forces us to get creative and keep searching for new stuff to skate. And Johannesburg has a really big scene and it’s tight too, everyone knows each other. But in South Africa the whole scene is like one big family – it’s cool.
Frontside boardslide in Vredenberg, South Africa. Ph. Sam Clark
I know a few years ago you spent a year in London, and last year you were in Berlin and Barcelona for a bit after the RVCA Sideways tour. Have you thought of moving to Europe full stop?
I’m a bit of a poltergeist. I pop up every now and again and then I just disappear. I kinda like it though. But I think if the opportunity arose then I would move to Europe for good. It’s hard to find a good enough job to pay the bills and have as much time for skating as I want in Europe. I found that in London I was working way more than I was skateboarding because everything was so much more expensive over there. In SA the price of living is a bit different – I don’t have to work my ass off every week just to pay the bills. Life’s just a little easier there. I think Europe’s on the cards as long as I don’t have to work some shitty bar job.
Ok so I know you were in an Adidas clip in
Namibia
… Have you travelled all around Africa with skateboarding?
Namibia was actually the first country out of South Africa I visited to skateboard. It was one of my favourite trips I’ve ever been on. That country makes no sense; it’s just a whole lot of nothing, but it’s beautiful. It feels like you’re on a different planet. From up north it feels like you’re on the moon and as you go south the sand goes red and it’s like a Mars-scape. The only other African country I’ve been to is Kenya, as my parents lived there for a bit. I haven’t had the opportunity to check out more places – I know Mozambique is crazy with spots… Quite a few South African skate tours have been to Mozambique, but I haven’t jumped on one yet.
Switch frontside wallride in Durban. Ph. Sam Clark
Most all of my South African friends living in London have a wild tale about South Africa where they either got robbed, almost killed, in a gnarly, fight, etc. Do you have a crazy SA story like this?
I can tell you one that happened literally two and a half months ago. So I was walking home with my boyfriend and these two dudes kinda came up from behind us, we were walking through an area we knew we shouldn’t have been walking through, but we were drunk and confident… So suddenly there was one dude on my side and one dude on his side.
And then in about 30 seconds they had split us up and the one dude had a giant, silver steak knife at my throat. He was screaming: ‘Give me all your shit!” And the other dude had my boyfriend pinned down, but he had no weapon so my boyfriend starts beating the shit out of this dude. So by this time my mugger is realising that his mate is losing the battle and my dude is just laying into him. So my mugger keeps looking at me like ‘are you gonna try something or do you wanna die?’ So I’m trying to dig all my stuff out of my pockets but I’m giving him stuff that’s kind of useless like an empty box of matches. My phone, my wallet, everything was with me, but I just keep whipping out these 2 rand coins like ‘here you go!’ and he was getting more and more pissed off, but I was just buying time because I was trying to figure out how to get out of this. It’s weird when you have a knife to your throat – you always think you are harder than you are.
Yeah…
You just think you’ll get out of it and beat the shit out of the guy, but I was just crumbling… I was pale and I just kept saying: “Just don’t kill me, just don’t kill me…” And then my boyfriend comes out of nowhere and gets him
in a headlock from behind.
Oh shit!
So as soon as the knife was away from my throat I gave the dude a little sucker punch and then I just kinda ran. I couldn’t be around that dude anymore. And then the dude got out of it and went straight for my dude’s heart and got him pretty good, like pretty deep.
Whoa, with the knife?
Yeah with the knife, he went straight for his heart and he nearly broke through. When the adrenaline’s running both of us didn’t even realise. So we ran in one direction and we were having a chat like: ‘are you okay? Are you okay?’ And then suddenly I just noticed his shirt was drenched in blood. And so the rest of the night was spent in hospital.
So he’s all right?
Yeah he’s okay. He’s a trooper though. When you live in a country like that you have to take these things in stride. It kind of happens all the time, but you can be street smart about it. It doesn’t have to happen, we were just being stupid that night. It’s just being in the wrong place at the wrong time. I’ve been in those situations in London more often than my whole life in South Africa. It’s unfortunate that we have to live through violent situations over there. But at the same time in London in one year I had to run for my life three times.
Really?
Yeah man… Rude boys everywhere!
So that leads me to my next question, do you think SA is dangerous place in general?
It can be if you don’t know what you are doing. If come visit it’s good to have a connection that can show you the ropes. It’s also kind of obvious, you can tell which areas you shouldn’t be in and which ones you can. For me, I think the beauty of South Africa kind of puts the wool over all the crime and dodginess of the situation. In a way I kind of like that it’s edgy like that you know? It’s like I kind of feed off that. And you learn a lot… You learn a lot about yourself when you get into sticky situations.
Tre flip to fakie in Cape Town. Ph. Sam Clark
What are your immediate plans for the future?
So I just went on a
RVCA trip
with some of the American guys like Spanky, Julian Davidson and those dudes. And it was kind of cool as they were in my turf so I put it on myself to give them the most South African experience. I took them to proper South African dive bars, taverns in the city, I took them for bunny chows in Durban and I took them out every night as well. So all the guys on their own time invited me to stay at their places in Long Beach and Los Angeles. They are thinking about letting me jump on a tour to Australia in February so that would be great. If that happens I’d go to Australia then fly back with them to LA and spend a few months in the States. It was good making those connections on the trip because that’s exactly what I needed.
So sometimes do you feel a bit isolated living in South Africa and being a skateboarder?
Oh yeah. We are far away from everything. To travel to Europe or the States you can’t just go online one weekend, and book your tickets… It takes about six months of planning and six months of saving. It’s not easy. But through connections it becomes easier.
New connections, new places… I know we’ll be seeing more and more of you. Best of luck Yann!
Crail block in Durban. Ph. Sam Clark

================================================================================

BY Will  •  October 7, 2016
Vladimir Film Festival 2016 recap
The respective authors of “Solsticij” & “Spirit Quest” : Croatia-based Nikola Racan, the main man behind the festival, alongside the Mandible Claw himself, Colin Read. Photo: Tomaz Santl
Words by Aymeric Nocus
Photos by
Tomaz Santl
You might or might not have heard of
it
before, yet – regardless of whether or not you did – it did take place again last week: the increasingly notorious Vladimir Film Festival, this year onto its 6th edition and unquestionably the biggest yet, having gathered 200+ skaters (nearly half of them being visiting foreigners from the US, the UK, France, Russia, Hungary…) in once again the same small Croatian village, for what has now unmistakably established itself as a landmark of not just an occasion for skate photography shows or video happenings, but of underground skateboarding altogether.
Pula’s Galerija Cvajner was beyond packed for Sergej Vutuc’s live performance and the premiere of Nikola Racan’s five-years-in-the-making project : “Solsticij”. Photo: Tomaz Santl
Reoccuringly marking the third week of September every year and unfolding around the Istrian region (namely the cities of Pula & Fažana), Vladimir has quite had its peak moments for a largely unsung festival deeply rooted in Croatian soil – far away from mainstream attention & energy drink sponsors, instead favouring the health benefits of olive oil. It notably hosted the first ever European premiere of Colin Read’s classic film
Tengu: God Of Mischief
back in 2013, only to then move onto not just exhibiting works by, but also personally welcoming Richard Hart (
Push Periodical
), Yoan Taillandier (
Minuit
), Henry Kingsford (
Grey Skate Mag
), Jacob Harris (
Eleventh Hour, Vase
…), filmmaker Philippe Petit (
Danger Dave
)… Josh Stewart, Benjamin Deberdt, Josh Roberts, Jean Feil, Phil Evans, the Threads Idea Vacuum and countless other reputed names have been part of that elusive program before as well.
The work of (a) lifetime(s) inspiring the youth worldwide. Out of the mind of experienced, creative individuals from around the world, into your very own naive retinas. Photo: Tomaz Santl
VFF yet again failed to fault this year, culminating in the outdoor premiere of Colin Read’s new film,
Spirit Quest
, on the Brioni islands – none other than former Croatian president Tito’s summer residency – boat ride included, highlighting the presence of Colin aka: the Mandible Claw himself at the event, opening it up with a speech recounting how such immaculate settings had to be the best context ever conceivable for an introduction to his latest piece. Subsequently to which, the video was projected on the very screen the former president used to employ for his own movie sessions. Talk all you want – it really doesn’t get any more gangster than that.
The Brioni Island zebras made it out to Colin read’s “Spirit Quest”. Photo: Tomaz Santl
In addition to
Spirit Quest
, VFF 2016 also saw a live exhibition & music performance by Sergej Vutuc, movie theater broadcasts of the documentaries
The Blackboard
by Marquis Bradshaw &
Future Is Primitive
by Katsuya Nonaka coupled with an international skate photo exhibition (Alexey Lapin, Kuba Baczkowski, Joel Peck, Richard West) within the same walls, a Nicaragua trip-themed show of both Jake Harris’ latest film and Henry Kingsford’s photos, as well as screenings of the Polar video, Isle’s
Vase
, Brett Nichols’
Pathways
, a special re-edit of Luka Pinto’s
Connexiones
and a lot more local films from around the globe, including Nikola Racan’s five-year-in-the-making
Solsticij
. The main person behind the festival every year and a human landmark of his local scene, Nikola had travelled across most of Europe and battled many demons over the past half-decade in order to get his video done, so seeing him get to finally show (and surprise people with) his work really was a particularly heart-warming moment. London-based independent skate & video shop
The Palomino
also had a pop-up store, full of rarities.
En route for the premiere of Colin Read’s “Spirit Quest” on the exceptional Brioni islands. 90% discount on the price for the boat ride for all guests and a surprise cake for Dom Henry’s 30th birthday (not pictured). Photo: Tomaz Santl
This year’s edition remarkable novelty wasn’t just the cast, but the extended duration of the festival as well. With the former installments usually spreading over two days & two nights, it was quite the surprise to see this one go on for twice as long, making it a 4-day run (even 5-day if you count improvised late night bar premieres). A commendable feat, especially considering how few people are actually involved in all the work, preparation and organization behind the event every year – with very little financial help from a handful of local sponsors as well.
Most relaxed setting ever for a skate event ? Better believe it. Vladimir guests take a break from all the intense noise. Photo: Tomaz Santl
Started from nothing, the Vladimir Film Festival keeps surprising in terms of interest and popularity with every new edition. Just when you think things really can’t get any better, the croatians keep unveiling new surprises and then some more – really challenging not to feel excited for next year already with such a sentiment in mind.
Istrian DIY. Photo: Tomaz Santl

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 19, 2021
Being old; wearing HUF
Illustrations by James Jarvis.
Words by
José Vadi
.
It’s when I glance up from my shoes and see my fellow morning train commuter across from me, staring, that I realise they are looking at my hat, confused.
HUF WORLDWIDE it reads in
The New Yorker’s
classic Irvin typeface. Same structure, format, like an above the neck cease and desist order glaring back, daring anyone to recognise the joke, the wink a skater with a brand and customer base can subtly create. That is the mischief of being a skateboarder, particularly a thirty-something skateboarder, without board in hand, just a backpack with the corporate patches torn off. One of many contractors in San Francisco riding BART with the primarily Montgomery Street bound and well-suited financial district bunch, aka the
The New Yorker’s
west coast subscriber base.
They don’t know that the remixed logo represents the nickname and global reach of a kid born and bred in Manhattan before redefining San Francisco’s streets. This type of West Coast pilgrimage reflects a relationship more intertwined with hills, urethane, and overcoming still-born skate spots than any West Coast day trader’s early rise could connect with the Wall Street ring of the Dow Jones. And as we mourn the loss of Keith Hufnagel – the father, husband, professional skateboarder, brand founder and incubator, mentor, streetwear icon and more – we also recognise his trademark nickname started in the streets with his Dirtbag Crew.
That mint green soft corduroy cap gave me some odd belief in my thirty-something-year-old self to still be a skater and continue to pursue a book about my relationship with California. I wore that hat on the mornings I went to the city early enough to be a café’s first customer and put it on again after work amidst the neon glow of a bar’s pinball machines. The hat reflected that intersection of stubbornly trying a trick and the desire to have your writing read by anyone, let alone the goddamn
New Yorker
. My fellow train riders don’t know the height of my fledgling heelflips, the state of my latest essay draft nor my burgeoning ability to slappy grind curbs – they just know me, and this hat, are fucking with them. Wardrobing this situational irony to the meter of the morning train generates that smirk, that informed gotcha, made-you-look moment that warms my pride of sticking with two seemingly career cul-de-sacs of culture – skateboarding and writing – that simultaneously changed my life as a teenager.
HUF’s flagship store in San Francisco opened a few years after I moved to Berkeley for college. I would occasionally skate around campus but the local Bay Area performing arts scene and its UC Berkeley crossovers, mixed with moving into the co-op housing system and commune scene became the overlapping Venn diagrams of my undergraduate existence. Still, HUF’s store was somewhere me and my non-skater co-op housemate could do something sneakerhead and skate related, together. He hosted a late-night radio show on Cal’s KALX, we went to shows, and this was our collective segue into streetwear culture. HUF’s Sutter Street store was probably the only place you could get the latest Dunk release and pro skateboarder
Brad Staba’s ‘Don’t Trip’ zine
, featuring a dead cat on the front cover and a man blacked out, faced down on an inclined San Francisco sidewalk for the back cover.
As recessions hit and stores closed, HUF the brand rebounded through a skate and footwear team, their edits introducing me to local favourites Thee Oh Sees through their
New York road trip edit
and making me recently buy one of my first branded ‘baggy’ pairs of pants in years. Over the years of rocking various pocket tees and summer shorts, the brand was this odd, subtle representation of the fact that, indeed, I am a skater and yes, I am aware of the types of contemporary culture that frequently exploits and commodifies trends derived from skate cultures – and know this brand isn’t one of them. And though HUF could be found in higher-end boutiques, there was (and is) a brand accessibility that allowed desk-ridden folks like myself to find their place. It’s not surprising that
Tony Hawk’s praise for Huf
as a businessman demonstrates how Huf – the man and the brand – will always be a barometer against which skaters of any age could judge themselves and their decisions, from the power of their ollie to the ridiculousness of their attire.
Keith Hufnagel’s loss is enormous for skateboarders of all ages but for those my age, I feel like we saw Huf as one of the few skaters who not only ‘made it’ but did so in one of the few adult ways that’s rooted to its ‘90s core. The HUF brand’s mission statement is seemingly taking risks and encouraging others to do the same, without any self-designed idolatry beyond a reluctantly self-branded brand. He is not Sean Combs dancing in the background of your latest street edit, nor is he the dial-it-in pro milking sponsors for all their temporal worth. He’s the guy asking
you to do a logo
for him and, in a few years, helping you start your first brand. He’s the
‘honest employer’
creating a platform to make Dylan Rieder’s ‘fancy shoe’ pro model with an
accompanying avant-garde ad campaign
a reality. He is the brand owner using legal means to
win the rights
to use his best friend’s image for charitable purposes.
Again – just a hat.
Wearing HUF while getting older and still skating is that tangible relationship manifest between the memories of our youthful, skate-till-we-drop selves and this beautiful curse of growing up and seeing the world forever differently as a skateboarder. Be it the kook-prone dynamics of a meeting room, or the bump-to-bar behind our office building, donning that hat before and after I clocked in was an anchor grounding me not against a day job, but the fear of not pursuing the dreams and goals that any labour should underwrite.
I still have the green HUF store bag: a short small bag with Benny Gold’s etch-a-sketch skyline logo wrapping around its base with a white tied-string handle above. The bag and its contents survived three studio apartments before finding its way to the apartment my wife and I call home. It rests in its own corner of this small office space we share and contains some of my most personal, creative belongings as a sort of brightly marked object I’d knowingly grab in case of emergency. It holds the handwritten journals that would become my first play and a receipt for the accompanying small art grant that created a security deposit that also moved with each apartment. An award so dated it no longer exists. Next to my journal are my father’s own from his time at the University of Wisconsin for grad school. He moved to the Midwest after growing up between Santurce, Puerto Rico and the East Harlem he called home in the fifties and sixties before Huf’s best friend Keenan Milton would do the same in the eighties and nineties. I wrote my play in the same journals as my Pops after he found and gave me some blank extras previously destined for the trash. Their cool threaded covers that read RECORD across the legal-sized crimson spine beautifully clash against the bag’s gecko green exterior.
How small a gesture to keep a bag from a now historically noteworthy store. As small a gesture as rocking a hat or just showing up to a new, upstart shop to begin with. It’s the collection of these mementos and experiences that allows skateboarders to justify a seemingly innate maximalism when it comes to hoarding, remembering, and cerebrally archiving so many aspects of our culture. Useless wooden knowledge indeed that, in a sense, could lead to nobody building another skate hall of fame or new Smithsonian-ish museum for skateboarding, when each skater themselves is its own archive, their own museum to the skating that means something to them.
Like you I look at photos on my phone from the before times pre-pandemic and see HUF’s clothes reappear in different photos over the years. In the wake of his passing I stare at the bag and the personal contents its held for years now and feel his loss, the on-going end of his era of San Francisco – the Brown Marble benches spot, Bay Blocks, and the Market Street marble slabs that dappled downtown’s red-brick streets – and feel too that odd, global connection skateboarding can generate.
I think about the times I’ve been told, ‘That’s not a
New Yorker
hat’ or asked ‘Where’d you get that hat?’ and how I’ve responded to either the same – ‘It’s Huf; a skater from New York.’

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 29, 2016
15 Seconds
When YouTube came out in 2005 it changed the skateboard game forever. Suddenly, kids didn’t have to be included in the latest 411 Video Magazine or the latest big skate brand DVD release to be seen. Anyone with a camcorder or camera phone could broadcast their video content out to millions on the worldwide web. So much more skateboarding video content from around the world was available right at your fingertips. And likewise, the introduction of video on Instagram in 2013 was another game-changer for skateboarding. Fifteen-second clips, easily viewable via smartphones, became the new normal and a new way for skateboarders to get their names out there. (Editor’s note: We originally released this article in print in May 2016, before 1-minute Instagrams were available and Insta videos were still just 15 seconds.) But interestingly enough, the clips that usually go big on Instagram aren’t the insane hammers that you are used to seeing as the last trick in people’s video parts – it tends to be quirky, unseen, never-been-done tricks that go viral. We thought it’d be interesting to talk to some of those that have become ‘Insta-famous’ through these short clips so we reached out to Mike Arnold, Karl Förli, Ville Wester and Sam Bethune to see what life’s been like after their fifteen-seconds of fame. – Will Harmon
Ville Wester
@villewester
Ville Wester has become an almost overnight sensation due to his innovative manoeuvres at the Bryggeriet Gymnasium. Hailing from Copenhagen, Ville is inventing tricks every day and it seems that the skateboard world has taken notice – including one Pontus Alv, who has enlisted Ville into the Polar ranks.
How long have you been going to Bryggeriet?
Ville Wester: I’m on my second year, and it’s a three-year education.
Do they discuss social media there in the classroom?
A little but not in the way we use it, more like the laws and stuff about it. You know school stuff.
What do think about becoming famous in skateboarding via Instagram as opposed to the old school way of filming a full video part?
It’s nice that you can reach out to so many people just by uploading an Instagram clip I guess. It is a lot easier to get recognised on Instagram if you do something different and new. I like the old school way too, with the whole process of filming a video part. I guess it’s more ‘real’ to do it that way, but you have to make the most of the chances you get and Insta is an easy way to do it.
A video posted by Ville Wester (@villewester)
on
Feb 15, 2016 at 9:03am PST
Was there a particular Instagram of yourself that made you gain the most followers?
There is a couple that got more attention than the others, but I don’t think it was because of one clip; it was more that things got crazier with every clip. I can see that when you have a lot of these clips, people follow you when they visit your profile because they want to see more.
Tell us about Henry Forsnor (@Baeonci), he’s the one making a lot of the Insta edits right?
Yeah he is a really good friend of mine. We go to class together and skate almost every day. He is super good at filming with the phone and always down to skate. We just like to hang out and do stuff.
Do you make the edits with Henry? Or does he do it on his own?
It’s different every time, but mostly we sit down together and make the clips. Sometimes we discuss what to do with the edit and end up making two different ones, it’s just more interesting.
Have you gotten any messages from brands about sponsorship due to your recent spike in social media coverage?
Yeah, some brands have reached out to me, but I already got everything I need… Thanks to Sidewalk skateshop, Polar skateboards, Nike SB, Desert crew, Fast Skateboard Wheel Company, Alis clothing and Ace trucks!
Mike Arnold
@mikearnoldeluxe
Even though Mike Arnold’s full Skateboard Café part came out on Jenkem a few months before, it was the slappy front noseslide 270 with an extra spin on Instagram that made Mike Arnold a household name. Oh the power of social media…
Ok the slappy front noseslide 540, 450, whatever… Had you done this before you did it at République?
Mike Arnold: Yes, it’s quite a weird story with that one… I first did it at Stoke-on-Trent filming with Shank (James Cruickshank). We were filming for the Converse Blend video and I did it. But for some reason I was wearing this really short, tight floral shirt and it looked absolutely stinkin’ on. Everyone said it looked like Jim Greco and I landed it and I heel dragged a bit, but I couldn’t do it any better at that time. So Shank really wanted to use this trick because it hadn’t been done before, but I really didn’t want to use that version because of how bad it was. If I’m going to do that trick I want to do it to a standard that I’m happy with.
A video posted by @skateboardcafe
on
Oct 14, 2015 at 9:41am PDT
You didn’t want it to go big without you being happy with it…
Exactly. So it got to the point where I was in Paris and I realised that the deadline for the Blend video was done and that trick was set to be in there. And Shank wasn’t really budging, so I just filmed one for Instagram at République. That was my only option of getting a decent version really.
So I guess it was planned to have it come out on Instagram before a proper video…
Yeah we just kind of decided ‘this was the time, this was the place’ and Instagram was the platform.
Do you have special name for that trick?
We call it the ‘nine’, like the 900.
Were you surprised when it went viral or did you expect that?
I was really surprised at how viral it went… Like Manny Santiago (@mannysantiago) of all people reposted it first. I would never associate him with a trick like that. And then I really didn’t know what Metro Skateboarding (@metroskateboarding) was, but they reposted it. I was getting like ten followers every second, it was insane. I think I drank a glass of wine that night and by the time I finished it I had 500 more followers. Maybe 1000 more, I don’t know. It was pretty strange and crazy, but yeah I definitely didn’t expect that to go so viral.
Didn’t you get some weird direct messages or comments on your Instagram after that?
Well some kid (@rollersurfer) kept getting tagged in to the Skateboard Café (@skateboardcafe) post of it. And he commented: ‘guys look, I know; stop tagging me in this.’ So I went on this guy’s account and he’d done it in a skatepark before. Have you seen the video of it?
No.
(Laughs) He may have done it by accident and he’s wearing really, really short shorts. But fair play to him; he did it. I hadn’t seen it; he’d done it a week before by chance.
A video posted by @mikearnoldeluxe
on
Oct 16, 2015 at 7:14am PDT
How do you feel about Instagram blowouts? (Instagram of trick coming out before the magazine photo or proper video)
That’s pretty much exactly what I did!
Yeah but some people do it unconsciously.
Yeah that’s not cool at all especially if there’s a photographer there and it’s going to go in a magazine or it’s going to go into an edit someone spent time filming. If someone is there on their phone in the background filming and completely blows it out that can ruin the trick. If someone’s there properly filming it, then that trick doesn’t belong on Instagram I think.
What’s more satisfying: having a trick of yours going viral on social media or finishing a full video part?
Finishing a video part for sure. A trick on Instagram doesn’t have much to it. It’s exciting for a day or two, but then it kind of gets lost. For longevity’s sake, the tricks you’ve done in the past are better in a full part. You can always pull stuff from a full part and put it on Instagram if you want.
Karl Fredrik Förli
@kf3hunna
Karl Fredrik Förli is a student at the Bryggeriet Gymnasium School in Malmö, Sweden. After performing a wallride nollie out super spin move (we don’t know what to call it) the clip went viral and Karl gained thousands of followers on Instagram.
Where are you from and how long have you been skating?
Karl Fredrik Förli: I am from Larvik in Norway and I have been skating for seven years now.
How long have you been going to Bryggeriet high school?
I´m finishing off my first year now, so almost a year.
Do they discuss social media there in the classroom?
John [Dahlquist] keeps us updated and we check the new stuff out from time to time. But we don´t discuss it too much.
What do you call that wallride nollie out spin trick that went viral?
Haha, the wallride spin thing was very random, but I think I just call it ‘the wallride spin’ or something like that.
A video posted by @kf3hunna
on
Mar 6, 2016 at 10:31am PST
Had you tried it before or was that the first one you did (the one on Instagram)?
I actually never tried that trick before, so it was the first time on Instagram. When I did it I thought that I was just going to get a pop shuv-it or something like that, but then it just landed on the board and it was like a nollie bigspin I think. Lucky shot!
It’s still hard figuring out what it was. Were you surprised when it went so viral?
Yes, I was a little surprised. The trick itself was a bit odd so it was funny.
Is there any friendly competition from the students of Bryggeriet to see whose clip gets the most views/likes?
Of course there is some sort of awareness between us, but this is all just for fun.
What do think about becoming famous in skateboarding via Instagram as opposed to the old school way of filming a full video part?
I think it’s crazy, because it seems like back in the day you needed to film for a bigger project to get sponsored. Times change I guess… I think it’s dope that it has worked out for me the way it has with the help from Instagram.
Have you ever had a full video part?
I have had some ‘mini parts’, but I haven´t had a part in 2016. This summer my goal is to film and travel around a little bit.
Have you gotten any weird direct messages through Insta? Can you give any funny examples of DMs or comments?
Haha, yeah there have been a few. I have gotten a few from people that want to buy my worn t-shirts. That’s funny. It´s been good too, I guess without it I wouldn´t have gotten in contact with Cons…
Cons, sick! And how did you link with Welcome Skateboards?
They saw some of my stuff and we talked a little bit over DM. They sent me a really nice package after a while and now I am the first European who rides for them.
Who are your favourite people to follow on Instagram?
I think my favourites have to be Sean Pablo (@_streethassle) and Will Blakley (@lit___man).
Sam Bethune @sammybethune
A clip went viral on Andy White’s (@andygsswhite) Instagram of this kid doing this unseen wind-up before doing a caballerial – essentially making it a 540. It was almost like the wind-up of a figure skater doing one of those jumping spin moves on ice. The relatively unknown skater performing these moves was Glaswegian Sam Bethune.
So what do you call that trick you do?
Sam Bethune: I don’t know I really don’t have a name for it. It all just comes from when I was younger – always skating fakie. Tons of people have called it a prevert, but I’m not sure, I just call it a full cab.
A video posted by Andrew White (@andygsswhite)
on
Nov 6, 2015 at 3:28pm PST
And you’ve been doing that trick for a long time?
Yeah, I just have been doing full cabs since watching Andrew Reynolds (@andrewreynolds) do them. And then the more I did them the more I thought I could add another spin to it. So I ended up adding an extra 180. So it looks like a 540.
Did you notice the way you were doing them was different than other people or did you think it was just a normal full cab?
I just thought it was a full cab and then one day down at the skatepark someone had an HD slow-mo camera and they filmed it with that. It was only then that I noticed I did it differently.
When Andy White put up the clip did the response motivate you to do more?
When the clip went up it was amazing. All these people from around the world decided to send me a message. Because I didn’t have Instagram when the clip went up, but then the next morning all these people had sent me messages on Facebook telling me how big it got. It’s amazing the whole thing how it blew up and that.
So you made an Instagram after that?
Yeah I made an Instagram the day after. One of my friends set it up. It didn’t motivate me any more per se, well I guess it motivated me to go out and skate more.
How about any weird direct messages? Any funny ones?
Ah not really. Everyone was really nice.
Famous people?
Yeah Richie Jackson (@thefeatch). He was really cool.
Who do you like following on Instagram now that you have it?
I like following Korahn Gayle (@kaygeezeee) ‘cause he posts good videos. I like all the guys that skate for Supreme like Tyshawn (@enwhytj) and Nakel Smith (@thatsonme). Of course Andy White (@andygsswhite), he posts amazing videos, but mainly I follow people that skate in Glasgow.
Do you think Instagram is taking over skating now as opposed to the old way of a full video part?
Yeah I guess so I think. I never watched too much skating… I always just went out skateboarding and watched my friends. I just watched Glasgow skating. I never really watched a lot of videos growing up. Some of the stuff I’ve been seeing people post up… It’s unbelievable. It’s definitely taking over.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  August 14, 2023
Puri: Where have all the flowers gone?
Georgia on My Mind
Words by Lexo Sharangia
Skateboarding is relatively new in Tbilisi, and in Georgia as a whole. It only started around 2003, when a small group of friends, including myself, started skating regularly, learning tricks and embracing skateboarding culture. Back then, when Internet access was limited and platforms like YouTube did not exist, we used VHS tapes and websites to explore this new world. One video which affected me enormously and which I have enjoyed watching ever since was Zoo York’s
Mixtape
by RB Umali. I would also print out some articles and distribute them among friends just to make sure everyone was on the same frequency and stayed informed; in the end a friend of mine was able to unite them into three different volumes.
Deni Zakaev, backside 50-50. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
Since 2003, skateboarding has become quite popular in Tbilisi. Initially, there were issues finding boards and other parts as there were no skate shops. I even participated in school exchange programmes to be able to go abroad and buy legit stuff. My friends would give me money to bring them boards from abroad too. We would also check second-hand shops in Tbilisi that were supplied from the US and Europe where we would often find branded skate footwear and clothes. This practice still continues today due to the low purchasing power of the population.
While today skateboarding is enjoying unseen popularity globally, it led to many confrontations and fights in the early years in the streets of Tbilisi – some skaters even got stabbed for refusing to give up their boards.
However, things have changed over time and today Tbilisi has multiple spots, with a mix of Soviet architecture and modern structures, which are perfect for skateboarding. If you have watched the pre-COVID
Levi’s Europe video
, compared to today you will see how different the situation is in terms of spots in the city: You can start your day by taking a cable car to Turtle Lake, then skate the perfectly asphalted 2.5km downhill road from there, along recently repaved Chavchavadze Avenue, to the Philharmonic building, and from there along Rustaveli Avenue to the Dedaena skatepark.
Roman Ivanov, frontside 5-0. Ph. Valera Leto
I met Roman (Ivanov) several years ago, when he first visited Tbilisi on a skate trip. He later returned to help build the first ever decent skatepark in the historical centre of the city. While his current declared purpose of the visit is to build skateparks around Tbilisi, his passion for skateboarding and filming has translated into a full-length video project under his guidance, while Dmitry (Kononov) ensured everything valuable was filmed and recorded.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine has led to an influx of young people from diverse backgrounds, including skaters, to seek refuge in Tbilisi and Georgia in general. This accounts for the non-homogeneity of the group of people filmed in the video project. With unlimited time of stay and access to the city, these guys have been able to really explore Tbilisi, discover new spots and bomb its hills, which have a distinct feel about them. Tbilisi undoubtedly has much more to offer and will hopefully establish its own presence in the European skate scene soon.
Eugene Aravin, frontside 50-50. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
Words by Roman Ivanov
I have visited Georgia many times, I have been there with my family as a child but it was not until 2017 that I ended up in Tbilisi on a skate trip. On that occasion, we did not have anybody that would guide us through the city so we skated already known/touristic spots located in the centre of Tbilisi. We avoided deviating from the main streets, not willing to risk losing time and concentrated on filming. In order to get an idea of what Tbilisi had to offer, we almost entirely relied on Patrik Wallner’s ‘Visual Traveling’ video as the main source for seeing spots. The video demonstrated really well the architectural aspect of Tbilisi and how well-kept the spots were.
During that week in Tbilisi rather than exploring the local skate scene, I enjoyed the local pace of life, communicating with simple and outgoing people and of course eating world-renowned Georgian cuisine – super tasty and easily affordable.
Ilya Kelarev, backside wallride. Ph. Roman Ivanov
Back at home, in Moscow, I told all my friends the story of our interesting skate trip to the amazing capital of Georgia – Tbilisi, emphasising that it is not that far away, obviously trying to attract some interest and achieve my dream of going back with a group of friends for a longer and a more productive stay.
It took two years for my stories to be heard and finally in 2019, together with a good friend of mine, who also happened to be my team manager at that time – Kirill Korobkov, we went to Tbilisi. Kirill had already been to Tbilisi several times so it was easier to convince him. This skate trip was not meant to be in a get it or die trying mode, rather it was a warm up trip after a long, cold and freezing Russian winter. According to the plan, the very first task to perform upon arrival was to go to one of the local restaurants and try traditional Georgian cuisine: Khinkali, Khachapuri, Pkhali, Lobio, Wine, Chacha! Everyone performed it successfully and were barely able to move, but we skated our way to the only (at that time) skatepark in Tbilisi in order to meet locals. Long story short, this trip turned out to be really fruitful. We skated and filmed a lot, we walked a lot around the city, met a lot of people and this was the time I fell in love with Tbilisi.
Roman Ivanov, boardslide. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
It was during this trip that I met Lexo, a person who is really devoted to skateboarding and spares no effort to help it develop in Georgia. If he is around, Lexo is always ready to guide every foreign team of skaters through the city, spots and nightlife. He makes sure the voice of skaters are heard and taken into consideration by the city authorities when it comes to the construction of parks. Generally speaking, Lexo makes sure skateboarding, through its various aspects, stays on the healthy path of development for the sake of future generations.
This trip to Tbilisi impressed me a lot, I felt super inspired as it occurred to me that this city had it all and merited wider exposure. I felt sure that thanks to the unique landscape, mix of architecture and colours of the city in general, the time and effort that one would spend there would leave you 100% rewarded and satisfied. But then the pandemic happened and all my plans of returning were put on hold.
Sasha Stolbov, frontside nosebluntslide. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
Having certain experience in building skateparks I often team up with construction guys and spend warm months of the year building concrete parks around Russia. As the summer of 2020 was coming to an end I got a message from Lexo. It said that he, together with his friend, had convinced the city authorities to demolish the only shitty skatepark and build a new one. In short, it was an offer to join an international team of builders but more importantly it was another chance to go back to Tbilisi.
My fears about the problems of travelling during COVID soon vanished as Lexo took care of the bureaucracy and pretty soon myself, along with two other guys, joined the Latvian skatepark construction company Mindwork Ramps.
Kim Malygin, ride-on 50-50. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
That time I spent four months in Tbilisi. It took two months to finish the city’s first ever real skatepark, which is perfectly located in the historical centre of the city. The other two months
I dedicated myself to skating with the locals, including at the newly built park. This trip was a real blessing in terms of making friends and exploring the local culture. The folder with photos of local spots got bigger and bigger in the hope of a brighter future that I continued to dream of.
The year 2022 arrived, with COVID almost entirely forgotten and life getting back to normal it seemed like the worst days were over but… I got injured in late January and spent a month and a half in hospital with four fractures of the hip joint. As I remained immobile in the hospital bed I started observing what the hell was starting to erupt in the world. I became scared and I started to fear for my family, my friends and for myself. I started to understand that once I recovered and was out of the hospital the world would not be the same as I knew it before the injury. It was like having a disturbing dream, a nightmare. Once out of the hospital I understood that my complete recovery would take time and effort before I could get back to skateboarding. I started woodworking together with my friend in a studio and moved around exclusively by bicycle.
Roman Ivanov, caballerial kickflip. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
Soon I got an offer to join a skatepark construction in the south of Russia. I immediately accepted it as it was a perfect chance to get out of the city and enjoy non-routine work together with a good group of friends for the following three months. Once I got back home after working I felt that it was still too early to start skating so I continued to nurture hope of getting back to Tbilisi. My hope was based on a call I got from Tbilisi earlier in January concerning the construction of two parks, but because of the general situation in the region, I almost did not expect anything good to happen in this regard.
Unexpectedly enough in mid-August the construction in Tbilisi was confirmed and I was told to be there by the end of September. I booked a flight to Vladikavkaz, which is the closest city to the Georgian border. The day before the flight I felt really lost, just because of what was happening in the region; I felt unsure I would be able to reach the destination. I took the flight, the road from Vladikavkaz to the Georgian border never seemed so dramatic – millions of people were trying to flee, total madness. Once in Tbilisi I immediately tried to immerse myself in construction just to switch my thoughts and refresh.
Deni Zakaev, backside 50-50. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
After a month I got a message from an old friend of mine, Dmitry, to whom long ago I’d told stories about Tbilisi. Dmitry was letting me know that he’d arrived in Tbilisi and that he brought his camera and all the equipment with him. We decided to meet up and discuss what could be done together during these hard times.
As the reader may have already guessed about this project, it was not the fruits of an overall consensus of friends, as I have always imagined and dreamt of, rather it was driven by the situation. This situation has forced many talented people to make quick decisions without thoroughly understanding what laid ahead. This is exactly how everything started with this video project.
Roman Ivanov, ollie. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
When Dmitry and I met we both agreed that what was happening was totally fucked up and considering that it might be the last time both of us are here together and have a chance to film something, we decided to start and see how it goes. In the beginning it was just two of us hitting the spots that I already knew. At the same time I have not been skating for almost a year after my injury and I was still trying to figure out if I was ready and able. Considering this, the first steps were hard to make. We would try to use every opportunity (on days off from the construction site and before or after work) in order to collect some footage if the weather was good. We agreed that some stuff had to be filmed on the classic spots, but at the same time we wanted to make something that would stand out and be unique. So we decided that we would check out every area carefully, share the info about new spots and once we had time to, we would go and check out these spots together. Soon we had the exact understanding of what we wanted the video to look like – we wanted to expose Tbilisi; in a way that had not been done before.
Victor Yunkov, nollie heelflip. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
Words by Dmitry Kononov
This video, which we’re calling
Puri
, brought together a bunch of different people who found themselves in a tough time, all in one place. Most of us didn’t know each other before, but our common goal bonded us and turned us into a real crew. On behalf of all, we want to express deep gratitude to the awesome people of Georgia for their hospitality and support. Despite all the challenges, we never felt like strangers in this land. The Georgians were always friendly, interested, and super supportive of skateboarding.
Igor Vorobev, taildrop. Ph. Ilya Kelarev
Here, it’s not cool to cause a ruckus on the streets, especially in quiet neighbourhoods. So every time we rolled into a new spot, we introduced ourselves to the locals, shared who we are and what we’re about. Showing respect to the people around us and their curiosity gave us the opportunity to hit up some mind-blowing spots. First and foremost, we’re all human beings, and we gotta find common ground with each other.
It often happened that they treated us to wine, and after making friends, we got an incredible energy boost on top of nailing sick tricks. That’s the key to creating a rad atmosphere at Georgian spots. That’s Georgia for you: good-hearted, friendly people, a mellow climate, and gnarly skate spots.
Thanks Georgia!
დიდი მადლობა
(Click the gallery below for more pics)
View Gallery | 15 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 22, 2021
Jante – 10:34
Words by Axel Lindquist
Arthur Derrien direct-messages me on Instagram asking if I’d want to write the article about Fritte’s new clip, the ‘crew’ and the series that is on its way. He ends his message with ‘…without being too corny’ and that awkward laughing sweat-drop emoji.
It’s funny because we don’t really have a word for awkward in Swedish. Of course the dictionary has suggestions, words like
besvärlig
(difficult),
stel
(stiff) or
pinsam
(embarrassing), but the suggestions don’t really grasp the entirety of the word awkward. Why is it like that?
It’s because in Scandinavia we have something called The Law of Jante, a conventional expectation for you as a citizen to not think you are in any way better than others; a law that counteracts everything awkward.
Filip Almqvist, backside tailslide, Stockholm. Ph. Alexander Olivera
The Law of Jante
1. You’re not to think you are anything special.
2. You’re not to think you are as good as we are.
3. You’re not to think you are smarter than we are.
4. You’re not to imagine yourself better than we are.
5. You’re not to think you know more than we do.
6. You’re not to think you are more important than we are.
7. You’re not to think you are good at anything.
8. You’re not to laugh at us.
9. You’re not to think anyone cares about you.
10. You’re not to think you can teach us anything.
11. Perhaps you don’t think we know a few things about you?
Josef Scott Jatta, feeble grind, Stockholm. Ph. Alexander Olivera
So what happens if you don’t conform to The Law of Jante? Then you’ll be labelled as difficult, stiff or embarrassing, well awkward, and after that you’ll probably end up as an entrepreneur or politician, but that’s beside the point. The point is that The Law of Jante, or being jante, keeps away the braggarts, the charlatans and the forced concepts.
The Law of Jante forces people to work industriously to make their product speak for itself, whether it be music, dynamite, bearings or skateboard films.
With that being said: We fucking rule. No, not Scandinavia and all the jante-loonies, but we the crew, Fritte and his friends.
So Arthur asks if I can, in this article, present ‘the crew and the video series’.
I think we need to take a step back Arthur. We have a couple of things we need to sort out. First of all, the graphic design of this magazine. It’s like you have made an active decision to practice ableism against us dyslexics.
Günes Özdogan, backside lipslide to fakie. Ph. Gerard Riera
I here ask you Will Harmon: Could you please stop writing on the skew, stop separating words and letters and please try to keep some margin to the edge? Thank you. You think too much and don’t feel enough; it looks unnatural and serves no purpose.
Another thing you should consider is that no magazine looks better than their worst ad, that one’s on me. But above all is that you’ll never be cooler than the coolest skater in the magazine, so you better try to keep good relations with us.
Like ‘the crew’ pointed out when we sat at the bar trying to, on your behalf, push a name out for this series.
Vincent Huhta Hasselberg, backside smith grind. Ph. Alexander Olivera
‘Äh, fuck what
Free
thinks.
Free
isn’t cooler than Vincent says they are anyways.’
You know Vincent Huhta Hasselberg, who turned down Supreme, even though he has never gotten a clip without toe drag. He has the aptitude for it: Try hard – Die hard. You see how hot Supreme is now…
This leads us to the task of ‘presenting the crew’.
Do you in all seriousness want me to present Gustav Tønnesen for you? Like people don’t know who that is? And if someone were to not know who he is, like if you’ve never skated for example, you’d still have heard him say as much as I have. Google his name and watch a clip. That’s all you need to know.
Gustav Tønnesen, switch heelflip. Ph. Gerard Riera
Then you want people to sit here pretending that they have never heard of Filip Almqvist before. ‘Oh he is a phenomenal skater, and so funny on Instagram. Always quick with a joke while blasting some of Europe’s best switch heelflips. Now he’s working with a super exciting project called Lurpiv, a new truck standard coming out of Sweden.’
Relax, everybody already knows him from Insta. You want to hear something personal? He thinks ‘Jante’ is a silly name.
Josef Scott Jatta, triple ollie, Stockholm. Ph. Gerard Riera
We can continue like this; I can write something about a fun memory with Josef Scott Jatta, how he one day rocks the party hat and the next day skates like a god. Instead I call upon you who read this to watch his parts
Sweet ‘n’ Sour
,
Where EU at?
,
Sour Solution
,
Sour Solution II
,
Domino
and any of
Fritte’s earlier clips
. Notice what a profoundly great skater he is. No ‘concept’, no personal brand, instead he let his skateboarding speak for itself. The only one capable of rocking those songs that DC chose.
Despite Hjalte whining, ‘I don’t know if Stockholm is that good for skating. It’s not that good for skating I would say…’, it’s exactly where Josef chose to move to as a next step in administering his talent.
Martin Sandberg, frontside 180 heelflip. Ph. Gerard Riera
So who are the skaters raised in and formed by Stockholm city?
First off, Nisse Ingemarsson… Nisse is to Stockholm’s street skating what Alice Munro is to the modern novel. He has embossed the whole street-initiative of today, with garages, industrial areas and metro stations. And how do you get to know a writer? You read their books. If I have to list all the parts again then I don’t think you deserve to see them.
And for you people at
Free
, next time Nisse sends a photo you gladly receive it with a ‘Thank you’ and publish it. Deal? Deal.
Hi Martin Sandberg! Should we do one of those Two-friends-sit-reminiscing-for-three-hours-and-then-makes-a-five-page-article-about-it that
Free
loves? I mean, you get what you deserve. At least the kids don’t have to ask who Chewy is any more.
Oh, you also have a hard time reading the magazine? Yeah I know, apparently you are supposed to flip the magazine around like a steering wheel.
Simon Hallberg, boardslide. Ph. Alexander Olivera
And what about you Simon Hallberg? Don’t be shy. You’re doing it all right, skating a lot and letting the result speak for itself, like we all want it, not least Fritte.
Just make sure you too keep your guts intact and everything will be fine.
Axel Lindquist, frontside 50-50. Ph. Filip Erlind
To explain it as short and simple as possible for you over at
Free
: Fritte has managed to capture a butterfly on film, but if you try to force the butterfly into the frame you’ll damage its wings.
You guys contacted Fritte to do this thing for a reason, so trust his intuition. You saw what happened when we tried pushing a name out for you, we really can’t. All we could come up with was Buy – Sea – Share – Ten. How fucking forced does that sound?
Gustav Tønnesen, switch wallie to crooked grind. Ph. Gerard Riera
We can’t fake this thing. There is no definite ‘crew’; we have no band name. There are too many cool locals in Stockholm and too many friends of Fritte for us to be able to present them all here. And I know there is a bigger plan, it will present itself eventually, but so far we are just a big gang that while looking for spots found each other.
Filip Almqvist, switch heelflip, Stockholm. Ph. Gerard Riera
We are awfully grateful just to do what we like the most with the crew that does it the best, and want to thank everybody that makes it possible.
But whether it be a trick, a photo or a clip we’ll let the thing speak for itself. After all, we maybe are a bit jante.
With that being said we must be onto something, because we get to share the now prime skateboard mag in the world with legends like
Chewy Cannon
.
And if you ever happen to pass through again Hjalte, tell us, we’ve got spots for you!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 27, 2016
Blobys Interview
The idea for this one was to take a look at this Parisian crew’s group dynamic and show how they interact with each other. It’s not the easiest thing to get across in an interview, especially when it has to be conducted in another language and the subjects have their own rare dialect of that said language (I’m not fluent in Blobys), but we thought it was worth a shot.
As skateboarders they’re obviously all pretty unique, but to us it’s the way they’ve grown to feed off each other’s energy that really makes them stand out. It’s rad to see how a group of childhood friends have come to be recognised for their own individual merits by drawing inspiration from each other. We’re not saying that you’ll see Karl (Salah) do early grab wallrides any time soon but being around one another is what keeps them motivated. It’s what keeps them bouncing around ideas for new tricks and it’s certainly part of what’s led their popularity (particularly on social media) to spiral out of control.
Anyway a couple of months ago we managed to get them all to meet at their favourite bar for a chat. It was loud, it was a little messy, but hopefully it’ll give you an idea of what the Blobys are actually like.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
All photos in Paris by Alex Pires
Arthur: I know you guys have been asked this a few times but let’s get it straight once and for all. Why are you called the Blobys?
Greg Cuadrado and Vincent Touzery: Kev’s good at explaining that one!
Kevin Rodrigues: Wait what? My version’s not a lie is it? I swear we did used to do that.
(Everyone laughs)
Greg and Hadrien Buhannic: No it’s not haha, you’re actually good at telling that one.
Kevin: Ah okay haha. Well it comes from when we were kids… We were between 12 and 14 right?
Vincent: I dunno it depends… Val (Valentin Julant) was probably at least 18 already, haha.
Kevin: Anyway we’d always sleep over at Hadrien’s house and sometimes we’d do this thing where we’d wrap ourselves up in our sleeping bags and fight. We called them Bloby wars.
Greg: Yeah and around then we all took part in this French video contest thing called ‘La Rue Est Vers L’image’ for which we needed a team name and we gave that. I guess it just stuck…
Arthur: Who were the initial members of the crew?
Val: I guess us (Greg, Roman, Kevin, Hadrien, Vincent) minus Karl.
Hadrian: Plus Salim (aka Croco) and Mathias (Labelle) right?
Greg: No, no, no, let’s get this straight: it started off with just me.
Arthur: Which is why you are now the leader haha.
Greg: Which is why it’s still more or less is just me. They surrendered the name to me.
Greg Cuadrado, 360 flip. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: What about you Val? You are from Paris originally right?
Val Yeah but not from the centre. From La Défence…
Arthur: Ok…
Val: Oh wait the way I met them is actually quite funny!
Everyone: Oh yeah the beanie story! Haha!
Val: Ok so every weekend I’d skate this stair spot at La Défence with the guys from my area. This one time we get to the spot and I wanted to skate the 7-stair but there was a massive shit at the bottom. Like it was huge. So I look around to see if there’s anything I can use to clean it up and I notice a beanie on the stairs so I’m like ‘fuck it I’ll just use this’. So I do, but as I start jumping down them I see a load of skaters heading towards the spot. It was Hadrien, Greg and a bunch of others guys. Maybe even Kev? Fuck I don’t remember… Anyway they show up and ask my crew: ‘Who used this beanie to clean up that shit?!’ After overhearing the conversation I man up and say that it was me. Only it was loads of them, some even quite famous in Paris and all pretty intimidating… I was convinced they were gonna beat me up or something haha.
Arthur: Nothing happened though?
Val: Nah I confessed and they were like ‘okay you told us the truth’ and it was fine.
Valentin Jutant, slappy bluntslide. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: And you even ended up becoming best friends with some of them… Cute. What about that Thomas Leclerc kid? He was a bit younger but he killed it in your first video (
Blobysation
– look it up!). Does he not really skate anymore or something?
Hadrien: I think he’s just more into music and graphic design these days.
Greg: Thomas is one of those guys that’ll just be the best at whatever he tries though. I heard he’s killing it with what he’s doing at moment. He’s selling quite a lot of work and stuff.
Arthur: What about Croco (Salim)?
Hadrien: He’s a locksmith and lives in Brest now.
Kevin Rodrigues. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: Okay and what point did Karl enter the picture?
Karl Salah: I arrived in Paris like two years after you guys did that video competition thing didn’t I?
Val: I just remember Karl doing switch flip back tails.
Kevin: Yeah I just remember seeing him skate and being like: ‘who the fuck is this guy?!’
Roman Gonzalez: We met him through Damien Bulle when he used to work at Nozbone.
Arthur: You were skating loads when you were in Lyon, but barely at all when you were in Paris right Karl?
Karl: Yeah when I got to Paris I actually wasn’t skating at all.
Karl Salah, backside nollie flip. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: That’s why you were saying that stuff about the cruiser board that’s in the Hélas office Hadrien?
Hadrien: Yeah, one of the first times we met Karl he stepped on that thing and did a knee-high nollie flip first try outside a party. I didn’t really know he skated and remember being like: ‘wow, okay, so that’s how it is…’
Arthur: Did these guys kind of get you back into skating then Karl?
Karl: I don’t know… I’d skate with Damien every now and then and they’d be around often. Slowly I started linking up with them, then Luidgi started giving me Cons shoes and little by little I’d start skating more. After that I started going on some Converse trips with them…
Arthur: Funny how you went from not skating at all when you moved here to being the first one at the spot and skating every single day.
Roman: Yeah it’s weird, the first few times we saw him we knew he used to be sick at skating but he didn’t look like a skater at all. As in his clothes and stuff…
Karl: That must have been at least like seven years ago or something though because it’s when Damien first started working at Nozbone.
Kevin Rodrigues, early grab fakie wall bounce. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: I bet you all worked at Nozbone at one point or another right?
Val: Probably… I think even Vincent did two days there once.
Vincent: Shut up! I was there for way longer than that. It was like two months or something!
Val: Yeah two months during which you took a shitload of days off ha!
Kevin: Oh yeah I remember! You even thought you liked it a one point.
Vincent: I did! From 10 to 12 you’ve got shit to do so time flies, then at one everyone arrives and you’re stoked because you get to hang out with them and after that well… Yeah I guess you’re bummed because you see them all head out for a skate…
Greg: So you’re bummed from half one to seven, haha.
Arthur: And right now which ones of you work and which ones get to just skate?
Karl: I help Clément (Brunel) out with Hélas at the office a bit…
Hadrian: I do a bit non-skate video stuff.
Arthur: And you work at the Supreme shop Val?
Val: Yeah.
Roman: I do some work with my dad.
Arthur: And Kev, Greg and Vincent you guys make enough from skating to just do that. What about this Bloby language you guys have? Can you explain what the deal is with that?
Roman: What do you mean? It’s normal. Everyone has their own words that they make up.
Roman Gonzalez, rock ollie. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: I’ve known some of you for almost ten years but I still don’t understand some of the words you use. I don’t know how normal that is…
Greg: Yeah I guess we do take it quite far sometimes.
Roman: But it just comes naturally.
Karl: Yeah basically if one of us mispronounces a word then often we’ll be like: ‘wow the way you pronounced that is hilarious’ and then we will all say it that way until it then mutates into something else and so on.
Kev: Or someone like Paul (Grund) will take one of our words, go back to Bordeaux, come back, say it differently and then we’ll start saying it like him…
Arthur: Can you guys give me an example and explain it?
Greg: Okay let’s look at the etymology of the word ‘jasooon’, haha. It means ‘I’m hungry’. Slang for ‘I’m hungry’ in French is ‘j’ai une dalle’ and we said it enough times quickly for it to start sounding like our pronunciation of ‘Jason Dill’. From then on it just became ‘jasooon’.
Kevin: That one’s logical.
Greg: In fact I’m surprised that nobody else came up with it, haha.
Vincent Touzery, frontside 360 ollie. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: Similar deal with ‘marku’ then?
Greg: Yeah. When we say ‘on se marku’ it means ‘lets go’. It started from the expression ‘on se pète’ (French slang for ‘let’s go’) and went through a bunch of transformations until we were saying something similar to ‘Mark Suciu’ that we then contracted into ‘marku’.
Karl: That one went very far…
Kevin: It usually just comes from us simplifying the words to make them easier to pronounce.
Karl: Yeah saying these ones feels better than saying normal words.
Val: The problem is that you then end up using way less words…
Kevin: It’s pretty useful though, like if you’re trying to talk shit on someone. I wonder if when we’re 30 we’ll still be speaking like this… It would be pretty funny.
Val: Easy guys, 30 is in three years for me…
(Everyone laughs)
Footy check. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: For how long have you been filming all of these dudes Hadrien?
Hadrien: Fuck I don’t even know… Ages. Like everyone we just started off with one of those tiny cameras and I slowly got more and more into it.
Arthur: But you didn’t film that first Blobys edit that was submitted for that video competition thing we mentioned earlier (La Rue Est Vers L’image)?
Hadrien: No I was skating in that one. But right after that we skated and filmed at Austerlitz (stair/ledge spot by Bercy) every day for about three years.
Vincent: Ah those were the days… We even built ourselves a little hut there.
Arthur: What?!
Vincent: Yeah it used to get really windy there so we built a place for us to chill, haha. It was sick, we used to all huddle up under that thing.
Kevin Rodrigues, wallie up to wall ride ollie out. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: What did you build it out of?
Greg: Just bits of wood and crap we’d find on the spot. We had to pretty much rebuild it every time we wanted to use it…
Val: I bet the people working in the offices opposite the spot used to trip out on us…
Roman: We also found a way from the spot into this secret corridor bit underground in the metro station. There wasn’t really anything to skate in there but we’d go when it would get too cold/windy…
Kev: Wasn’t there footage of Youcef (one of their mates) skating naked down there?
Val: Yeah that was for that ‘King of tro-mé’ thing. Skating naked underground was one of the challenges. It was like a King Of The Road but just in the city’s metro stations and four crews participated. We had loads of weird challenges to do; it was so much fun! Rémy Taveira’s brother organised it…
Roman: Oh yeah and in the end they self-proclaimed themselves winners because they were the only ones that actually made a video! Haha.
Arthur: What’s the deal with those Blobys t-shirts? Who drew that logo? It’s sick.
Val: Kev did.
Kev: Yeah I drew it on my iPhone, haha.
Arthur: What, with just your finger?
Kev: Yeah. Then I walked to the top of my road and got it printed on a jumper. Then we stuck it on a load of t-shirts… We want to do more but we don’t really know where to begin.
Arthur: Can you tell us a little bit about this edit that’s coming out on our site? I could have sworn at first it was supposed to just be a short clip and it’s turned into a half hour mini-video.
Hadrian: Yeah we were planning on putting it out sooner but didn’t and then went to Barcelona and couldn’t not put that footage in there. We basically got a bit carried away with it. I think I might take some stuff out but it’s tough…
Val: You can probably start by taking out all of Greg’s footage, haha!
Hadrien Buhannic, wallride ollie out. Ph. Alex Pires
Arthur: Have you guys been getting stuff with the HD Camera since you finished working on that?
Hadrien: Yeah.
Arthur: What’s that going to be for?
Hadrian: We don’t know yet… We still need to get all this VX footage out so we won’t be releasing the HD stuff for a bit.
Arthur: All right I’m gonna go for a piss.
(Greg picks up the phone that’s still recording and speaks into it)
Greg: Fucking hell he’s really doing our heads in with his stupid interview isn’t he boys?
(Everyone bursts out laughing)
Greg: So stoked that I just thought of doing that, haha. It’s a joke Arthur don’t worry.
(Arthur returns)
Arthur: Anyone got anything they’d like to add?
Alex Pires: Do you guys ever trip out when you see ‘The Blobys’ written everywhere? It must be weird seeing it being mentioned on the
Transworld
site and stuff?
Vincent: I don’t know… So many skate videos come out every day that it doesn’t really feel like that much of a big deal.
Kevin: Well I tripped out when I saw Maxime Géronzi use it on his Instagram to describe a trick. I think it was like a 50-50 to rainbow rail or something and he called it a ‘50-50 Bloby out’ because it was a bit unconventional. That was sick.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 3, 2015
Wes Kremer and Madars Apse Interview
Last week we caught up with Wes Kremer and Madars Apse as they were passing through London during the first leg of
DC’s Special Delivery Tour
.
Growing up in such different parts of the world we thought they might have some good stories about travelling together and
becoming close friends thanks to skateboarding. They did not disappoint…
Do you guys remember the first time you met? What were your first impressions of each other?
Wes: I totally remember the first time I met this fool. It was in Helsinki in 2009. I flew out there with Marius (Syvanen) and when we arrived in the morning we were so jet lagged that we passed out until the night. By the time we made it out of the hotel it’s already about 10pm, so we went straight to the bar, met up with the Perus Crew and “chilled with all the homies”. Long story short, we ended up going to this guy Pablo’s house and I noticed that this wasted Latvian dude had followed us from the bar. He was absolutely smashed, like out of his mind. I remember thinking to myself “dude who is this fool?”
Madars: Yeah and then we played foosball from 4am to 6am and went street skating.
Wes: Oh yeah! I remember thinking “ damn this dude sucks” haha. But then the next day I realised that that wasn’t the real Madars. I got to properly chill with him and he was mellow.
So was that during one of those Helsinki Hookup comps? Those things are mental haha.
Wes: Oh yeah. When you go to one of those comps the true contest is surviving the weekend. There’s a fucking party every single day. They’ve got like two pre-parties before the whole thing even starts, then it’s the official party, then the after-party and then an after-after-party…
And suddenly you randomly end up at a huge music festival with Alicia Keys on stage…
Madars: You mean suddenly you are trying to skate the comp dressed up like a girl with makeup allover your face!
What’s that about?
Wes: Oh man that was hectic. Went out the night before, partied with some friends, some girls, got hammered, passed out at nine, woke up at ten and instantly started drinking again. I was still fully going for it when my homegirl handed me all this gear. She was like “go on, put this on, put this on…” So I had a skin-tight white t-shirt on, some weird pony around my neck, another chain with a bike-horn on it, some other massive Flavor-Flav piece etc. By five’o clock in the afternoon I’m still drinking but I think to myself that it would be cool to meet the homies at the skatepark. Then as we are about to leave my friend pulls out these insane American flag short shorts and by that point I was like “fuck it, I’m at a point of no return already… get ’em over here”. So I threw on the shorts, showed up at the park and as I rolled up the finals were starting. Except when they saw me and instantly gave me the Golden Ticket and were like “alright you have to skate now”.
Madars: That’s when he started doing laybacks and benihanas on every obstacle haha.
Wes: Yeah I was pretty much benihana-ing with my balls hanging out!
As European Skater Of The Year and “American” Skater Of The Year, how do you feel about these kind of awards and the fact that there are two rather than one big one?
Wes: It’s sick man. I mean they have an Australian one too. Now where’s the Asian one, the African one? They’ve already got a Canadian one right? We need a Mexican one… They’ve got skaters of the year all over the planet… Fuck it I want to see the Antarctic-an SOTY! Now here’s my question: you know how a few Europeans have won the “American” Skater Of The Year award (Arto, Rowley…), when’s an American going to win the European one? Huh? I want to see an American move here, get with a European chick, get dual citizenship and boom!
T
hat sounds like Dallas (Rockvam)…
Both: Yeah that guy should be fucking skater of the century!
So you guys have been to each other’s respective hometowns and they are probably pretty different from one another. Wes what were your impressions of Ventspills (in Latvia)
and Madars what were yours of San Diego?
Madars: Staying with Wes is tight! He’s got a nice little crib with his parents, in a nice neighbourhood… You can see it in the California episode of
It’s A Mad World
pretty well haha.
Have you started the second season yet?
Madars: We’re actually trying to get sponsors for it right now.
Wes: Trying to get
Mad
budget !
Madars: Yeah how do you think we did 24 episodes? Flying a filmer around to follow me around isn’t cheap. But getting sponsors and stuff isn’t really my bit, it’s handled by a London-based production company.
What about you Wes, what did you think of Madars’ hometown in Latvia?
Wes: What Ventspills? Ventspills fucking ruled man. Actually now that I think about it we almost didn’t make it there! We got pulled over for speeding and the homie driving was like “yo throw out the weed man” so I literally threw the weed out the window just as the cop was walking up to us. By some miracle he didn’t see it so he chatted to us for a second, we told him we were all from Sweden and going to Ventspills, and got away with it. We even popped out of the of the car as soon as he had his back turned to pretend to piss and pick up weed!
It was during one of those Sweetmafia trips (Sweet Skateboards and Sk8mafia). Two full vans of skaters just invaded Ventspills. I don’t think we did much street skating but I sure do remember going out…
Madars: We did some other cool stuff though. We went to the adventure park, skated the launch ramp to blow-up mattress… In fact if you find the footage of Daniel Spengan eating shit there you should definitely show it!
Wes: Oh yeah that one was crazy! I remember the night before we went to a club called the Kiss Club…
Madarse: One of the two clubs in my city.
Wes: Yeah and I remember that whenever
Jonas (Skroder)
and me would try and dance with girls this one dude would follow us and shout “YOU! You not Ventspills! Go… Go!” Nothing came of it though, we kept smiling, doing our thing and he didn’t flex on us. But later that evening in another part of the club I saw this gnarly argument between two dudes. After a while it got broken up, so one of the guys started walking out, but as soon as we thought it was over he rushed back in an knocked the other dude out instantly. And then kept punching this dude’s head in. It was fucked, the dude was getting destroyed, like pretty much dead and the bouncers were just standing there not doing a thing…
Madarse: And THEN, about fifteen minutes later I had to ask these others guys not to attack Marius (Syvanen). They’d come up to him and be like “give me four cigarettes now!” and punch him from behind if he said no. The guys are these local kickboxers from my hometown that are fucking assholes. There’s quite a big group of them but even if it wasn’t the case, they aren’t the kind of guys you want to posse up against. As I said they are kickboxers and assholes so they will not hesitate to fuck you up. It really sucks, they basically lurk around town looking for fights… The next day when my brother found out about this he was like: “How? How could you not tell me?! I can’t believe my brother got embarrassed like that in our hometown…” To give you a bit of context my brother is massive, has a shaved head and really looks like if you mess with him he’s going to… Basically he’s got my back. I had to really explain to him that I didn’t want to fight, that I wanted to diffuse the situation rather than make it escalate.
Sounds like quite the adventure… What about this tour, how’s that been going ?
Wes: Yeah it’s been good, we’ve got a solid crew.
Madars: And we are filming a tour video that’s coming out entirely on Instagram! No I’m just joking, what I mean is that it’s more of a mellow trip. We don’t have the pressure of having to make a tour article or a proper tour edit, the main aim is to give out a bunch free shoes in the skateparks of the cities we visit, which is pretty cool thing to do. Plus if we film anything we’d like to keep for other projects we can.
Wes: Good thing it is that kind of vibe, because we are now down to one healthy skater haha.
What happened to you?
Wes: I tried to noseslide a rail on the second day and rolled the fuck out of my ankle. I was just on a Muska hype; it was Muska’s birthday and we’d watched
Guilty
. I’m guilty of watching
Guilty
haha… I should have
Fulfilled The Dream
, I would have landed that noseslide.
Madars: And now all the pressure’s on me for those Instagrams!
Wes, for how long have you been coming to Europe? You seem to know everyone out here.
Wes: It’s my eighth summer and I try and stay as long as I can every time. I usually go through Barca at least once every time and you know how that place is, it’s a real melting pot. You meet skaters from all over Europe out there…
Madars: You only came for two days one time don’t lie.
Wes: True. Two days in Quebec, then two days in Paris for the
20 Years Of DC
book launch. But who are you to talk? You did 48 hours in Cali once and spent 24 of those at
The Berrics
!
Madars: Yeah Steve Berra wouldn’t let me out.
Wes: He fucking pitched a tent in there: “You’re not leaving this place until you film your fucking
Banging
!” Koston doesn’t even have the keys to that place anymore, it’s just Berra and he’s gnarly. That’s why it’s so dark in all those edits you see, it’s because it’s like four in the morning.
Madars: Haha we’re just messing, we are down with the Berrics. It’s actually a super fun skatepark, almost like
Stockwell
.
Almost exactly like Stockwell haha. Anything planned for the rest of the year?
Madars: I’ve got a bunch of Element trips lined up as they are making a full length video. Yep, some companies still do those believe it or not! Then there’s a Patrik Wallner trip as well. We’ll be going to Georgia, Armenia and a bunch of other places.
Wes: Like the North Pole. I heard there’s a buttery pole jam up there…
Madars: Alright then you tell them about your plans.
Wes: Survive dude. Just stay in one piece, I’m fucking dying here.
Anything in the works with Sk8mafia?
Wes: Always man. Always filming and stacking footy with those boys…
Of course you are, you guys used to do Sk8mafia Saturdays! Filming “normal” videos must be mellow compared to that…
Wes: That was insane. Every fucking week dude. It’s Nick Lamb… Him and Dan Connelly they are just on it. But that was before Instagram. Now with Instagram it’s no longer Sk8mafia Saturdays it Sk8mafia everyday.
Well we look forward to seeing what they do put out. Their videos are always a treat. Cheers for the chat boys! Hopefully see you in Berlin for
the second part of the trip.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  December 8, 2016
Colin Read – Spirit Quest Interview
Colin Read, London, 2016. Ph. Sam Ashley
What’s great about skateboarding is that it attracts people from all walks of life. And sometimes these people that are attracted to skateboarding pick up a video camera and try to capture that passion. One such person is Colin Read, or you may know him by the name Mandible Claw. The aforementioned use of the word passion is especially relevant for Colin, for he is perhaps the most passionate person I’ve ever met to pick up a Sony VX1000. The amount of planning, special filming tricks, editing techniques, broken cameras and sheer talent in his new video
Spirit Quest
is like no other skate video I’ve ever seen. Lucky for us Colin was more than happy to explain how it all went down. In the middle of his
Spirit Quest
worldwide premiere tour we met up with Colin in London to have what was supposed to be a short 20-minute conversation… Almost an hour later we finally pressed stop on the Dictaphone. So I don’t wanna say ‘thank God Colin got hurt in high school and bought a video camera,’ but that did happen, and without that perhaps the skateboard world would have never been able to witness Colin’s talents behind the lens. I guess sometimes injuries aren’t all that bad eh?
–Will Harmon
Interview by Will Harmon and Arthur Derrien
Will: How have you been able to fund all the trips for this video? Do you have a full-time job in New York?
Colin Read: Yeah I have a full-time job; just doing motion graphics and video editing in an office. Just that and a credit card basically has funded it all.
Will: Is your work cool with you taking a month off to premiere the video?
Yeah. Well it was either this or I’d have to quit and they didn’t want me to quit so…
Arthur: And so no brands put in any money to help you out with making the video?
No. It was all completely independent.
Will: How many VXs and lenses did you go through filming this one?
I’m not entirely sure because I kind of stopped keeping track. But I think I went through eight cameras and three lenses over a span of a bit more than three years.
Will: So the lens doesn’t get smacked nearly as much as you think it would?
Well actually the lens gets smacked almost constantly, but they are just super-resilient. What happened several times is it would be a lens hit, and the lens would be ok, maybe just a little nick, but the camera would break. The MK1 is like the best lens ever made, but the camera is over twenty years old.
Arthur: Where would you get them? They’re getting harder and harder to find these days…
I’d try not to get ones from skaters, as those are the ones that are going to suck. I usually try and get them from word of mouth, or find anyone selling one for when it’s really dire… One I got from a camera store that was going out of business and they found it under their stairs. It had been under their stairs for 20 years or whatever. I’ve bought ones and then instantly something was wrong with it and it doesn’t work.
Will: Are you good at taking them apart and piecing them together?
I have super-basic knowledge of it, but not as good as a lot of other filmers. When I was in SF, filming Chris (Jones) actually, he was trying a line where he was hitting a few flat gaps then trying to switch back 5-0 across a long Philly step and fell and just kicked off the microphone. So this was in SF, I was on a trip, so it sucked as I was on a trip without a working mike. But then Zach Chamberlain helped me piece it back together at a skate spot that night…
Arthur: At the skate spot!
Yeah at night with some just some iPhone lights on it to see. Zach had a little screwdriver and he managed to piece it back together because the cable was still intact. Somehow we ended up with a bunch of extra parts so we just duct taped it together and it worked.
Will: Insane. There are a lot of innovative shots in this video. For instance the underwater stuff… How did you pull that off? I’m sure you didn’t use a GoPro…
Yeah it was all VX.
Arthur: How does that work?
Well I used duct tape again. I put the camera in a bag.
VX as salmon. Ph. Allen Ying
Will: But the footage looks so clear?
Well because there’s nothing on the lens. The lens is just glass. We basically cut a hole in a vacuum bag and…
Will: Oh you duct taped around the lens!
Yeah we duct taped on the lens…
Will: So the actual lens touches the water. That is incredible.
Arthur: That is fucked up.
Will: That must have been so scary the first time…
Oh it was terrifying. I used just the worst VX I had. So if it broke it wouldn’t matter at all. But it didn’t break! And we did it multiple times and it still works. The lens is still duct taped to the camera.
Arthur: That is insane.
Will: Also one of our favourite shots was the split camera stuff with two VXs… Had you thought about this a long time?
Well for a long time I wanted to explore the possibilities of different ways lines could go. And so really in the split screen stuff it’s actually two different things happening: some of them are two VXs filming and the other one is what I’d call the alternate dimension skating. So the two VX skating was a bit more straight forward… It was just two skaters and I’d begin with the VXs side by side so It’s almost an identical cut so then you could begin the split frame and break them off and in the end I’d bring them back together. But for the alternate dimension skating it was a lot trickier: both while filming it and in post, because it was a lot of orchestration. Basically a skater would have to do one line or something and then would basically recreate the line, but at one point split off into another direction or do a different trick and then possibly meet back up at the end. So that was a lot of me trying to get the skater to understand exactly what they needed to do and luckily my friends all trusted me, because it was completely insane sounding a lot of the time. Because it was like imaginary skating you know what I mean?
Arthur: Yeah.
I’m sure they really couldn’t picture what the hell was going on and a lot of people were just ‘alright well ok sure’ and at the end it would be ‘ohhhh! Ok!’ once I’d actually made it and I’d basically piece it together in the editing room.
Will: Yeah that was one of the questions I was going to ask: How hard was it to pull off and what did the skaters think about this as you were filming them?
Arthur: They must have thought you were trippin’.
Yeah sort of, but everyone was more than game to fuck around. And some of them just ended up not working – the effect just wasn’t that good and some of them were too bizarre and people could just not comprehend what was happening. There was one I did with Connor Kammerer and in the middle of a line he does a tre flip and in one dimension he lands only on his left leg, like one footed, and in the other dimension he lands only on his right leg and so in the brought together dimension he land like a tripod with three legs. So he’s standing on one leg but he has another leg in either direction sticking up like a tripod and then he does a powerslide to bring it all back – to bring his legs back in to his body. So I really liked that one, but the people I showed it to just couldn’t even comprehend… They just couldn’t understand it. It was just too bizarre to use in a part. And I think the video in general takes several viewings to comprehend everything.
Arthur: Yeah I remember being very confused at certain things in the end.
Yeah it’s very dense and there are a lot of hidden things and really bizarre things that are hard to understand. So it’s meant for repeated viewings for sure.
Many VX’s were harmed in the making of this video. Ph. Allen Ying
Will: Was there a lot of push and pull with the skater’s vision versus your vision of how stuff would be filmed?
Some. But for the most part everyone just trusted me and was down. In general it was a really fun process and everything because all the weird stuff and the multiple camera, split screen and new weird filming techniques… It just kept it fun. I mean you go street skating every day, searching for spots every day and it can get a bit monotonous and especially in your hometown or whatever, so these things kept it fun and as well searching for all the animal spots. Even though most of what we’d be doing was normal street skating, but we had another thing we were looking for and were going for that kept the sessions fresh. We had another goal on top of just filming whatever we can on the street. I think everyone knew it was kind of going to be a special video so everyone really wanted to have a strong part and I think everybody did.
Will: Yeah I was blown away… The guys really came through. Ok the camera kickflip or is it a heelflip? First try?
Oh it’s a kickflip for sure. That clip that you see wasn’t first try, but I never dropped it. The camera never got hit somehow. But it was a kickflip and I had to figure out what was easier and I think because I’m right-handed a kickflip was easier. I had been wanting to do that and I did a test of it years ago, before this video even. At first I just wanted to do a kickflip, but then I figured if it were a real trick like a kickflip nose manual it would be even more insane. So basically I just had to wait and decide on a person who had the best kickflips and wouldn’t fuck up. It ended up being our friend James Sayres; he’s just a kickflip god and doesn’t fuck up on them ever.
Will: Another cool shot was the 90-degree up and down transitions shots… They’re hard to explain.
That’s another multiple dimension thing.
Will: Yeah I thought that would be really hard to figure out. Did you ever have to storyboard these things, like draw it out, or was this all in your head?
Well there were a couple of them. One was with Daniel Kim and he’s really good and loves doing the old school handplant wallrides. So I just told him the idea I had for it and he was down. Originally the sequence was going to keep going on longer, but it ended up just being too much. But Daniel’s we basically just tried to find a spot where the ground looked like the wall. And for the ones in Connor Kammerer’s part, that one was way harder. Daniel’s was a lot looser and we used rough animation to blend the frames, but with Connor’s all of the match cut stuff of his body when he goes up on the wall, they were all really close, so it was just a lot of him and I filming the tricks and looking at it and realising how we needed to do it.
Will: Would you film the other half of the cut in the same day?
Yeah the same day. Well actually there were a couple ones from different days because it took awhile to find the matching spots. For the fakie flip cut, that was hard because we filmed the wallride to fakie first, so we had a still shot of his body positioning and so we had to film a line where he did a fakie flip and he would land in the same body position. So he had to do a fakie flip and land leaning way farther back and crouch down with his arms like Usain Bolt. It took a lot of trial and error, but it worked.
Taylor’s board toss to Eby’s jungle gym swing. Ph. Allen Ying
In Connor’s part, the sounds for his song are all skate sounds. Did Connor do that? Can you explain that one?
So Connor’s first song is a like a dub song, reggae style, and it’s built entirely out skate sounds. All the beat is just looping and repeating skate sounds and this was the brainchild of Connor himself. It was a really difficult process actually of us working back and forth of finding spots that would have a good percussive element. And then he would take them (the skate sounds) and record them analog on a four-track player. So he would loop the sounds through that and he would also run them along an analog reverb with a reverb petal. So he did it with somebody that worked on his song on with him in
Tengu
, Tavo Carbone and also Ty Flowers.
Will: Ah ok.
So basically they worked that part out and got the beats together and then Connor sent me a kind of rough-cut of the part. And then I had to go and restructure it and build it so the part made sense, while still having the song make sense.
Will: Oh okay so Connor had the footage from his part already?
He had the individual clips, I gave them to him, and he would dismantle them and turn some of the sounds into loops on the four-track and then using that he sort of made a template of the part, which then I can of restructured. And then I’d send it back to him, and then back to me, and so on. It was actually a year’s long process.
Will: It sounds really extensive actually.
Yeah making that one song took over a year.
Will: And then you guys would film a new trick and it would throw the whole thing off?
Yeah basically. Connor is a musical genius. He and Ty Flowers made his second song too – the dreamy night waltz song for the dimensional part. Oh and Quim (Cardona) played the melodica for the first part of Connor’s first song.
Will: I know you appreciate high standards of filming. Who else out there are you hyped on?
Right now I mean Zach Chamberlain of course. He’s a VX psychopath. He’s definitely the best hill filmer for sure. Everything is really fun what he does; it doesn’t feel too premeditated. I wish Yoan Taillandier would come out with something new; he’s amazing.
Will: I think he’s working on something he’s just taking his time with it to make it right.
I can understand that.
Spirit Quest
was a long process. Take as much time as you need. I don’t think footage really expires other than for obvious reasons. I mean
Static IV
had some 2005 clips in there. Whatever Yoan puts out it’s going to be great; he’s such an amazing guy…
Arthur: And he’s sick at skating…
So sick at skating! He’s got that nineties gangster style…
Will: Yeah last year when we were at that
Vladimir Film Festival
Nikola (Racan) filmed all these tricks of him and he was like ‘it’s so good to be here without my camera and just skate…’
He’s just such a pleasant dude… Actually I’ve got a pretty funny story about him! So one thing that’s great to do if you’re in Japan is go to the onsens, the traditional bathhouses. They’re super cheap, like 4-5 bucks and you just go in naked and you can relax in there for however long you want… Anyway so one time he went to an onsen with all the French guys (Magenta crew) and some of the Japanese homies. Everyone goes in and it’s just loads of small naked old Japanese men: little dicks. When Yoan goes in he’s of course a super tall half black dude with a massive dick and when all the old Japanese dudes see him they go ‘whoaaa ANACONDA!!!!!’ From then on for the rest of the trip everyone would call him ‘anaconda’ and he’d just be mortified, haha.
Will: Haha Jokes. How did you decide the structure of the video?
Everything I’ve worked on before has pretty much been ‘film on the fly and work it all out in editing’ like
Tengu
and everything else I’ve worked on before. But this video ended up taking a lot of choreographing and planning. Because a lot of the transitions were structured as such that it had to be planned for it to work. Like you had to know beforehand who was going to be in this transition.
Will: Also how did the selection of the skater’s involved come about?
It’s just my friends mostly. People whom l skate with in New York.
“Four legs good, two legs bad!” Ph. Allen Ying
Arthur: What about the people not living in NYC?
Hiroki (Muraoka) was really the impetus for filming the video in the first place. I met him right when
Tengu
ended and I always liked his skating. And then I met him and I thought he was the most amazing, incredible cool person ever. And his skating in person is completely magical and amazing and I just really wanted to film a part with him and give him a venue to really shine outside of Japan. I ended up going to Japan three times just to film with him for this part.
And as far as the other people that lived other places Chris (Jones)… I met Chris here (in London) several years ago when I was on a Magenta tour and I just hung out with him for a day basically. And then I also met him as soon as
Tengu
ended… He was supposed to be at the (Tengu) premiere, I mean he went to New York for the premiere, but he was with his buddies in the bar for too long and he ended up missing the video. So he ended up just hitting me up and he stayed at my place for a while and we filmed a bunch. It was really on Chris… He was just really hyped and motivated and so he came to New York a few times. Plus he came with me to SF a couple times. Basically any tour he’d go on or any trip he’d go on with a company instead of flying home from there he’d make another leg to New York or meet me in SF or something, which was great. And then he took a long trip to Japan with me, which was really amazing.
Will: Any good Chris (Jones) stories from trips? Arthur said there’s one about meeting a chick at a skate spot…
Oh I don’t know if I can… Can I?
Arthur: You definitely can!
He’s single now, fuck it right! So it was actually the day he filmed his ender, his last trick.
Will: The firecracker things?
Yeah, which is so fucking insane. He did the half cab flip firecracker on his first trip to NYC, which is so much more insane than what anyone had ever done at that spot. It just so happened that the next time he was in New York and we were in the area and we wondered if the fountain he skated was still dry at that time. It was still the winter so we went to check it out and he ended up just shutting it down. He destroyed it. Everything he did there is impossible. So he filmed three tricks there that day, including his ender, so in his words he said it was the best day of his life. And while he was there, there was this girl who was kind of just laying down in the grass and was smoking a cigarette and reading a book or something… Just like this little art school girl. And she actually changed her top in the grass there and I was like ‘what!’ So she was sitting right where Chris starting to roll up so he just started chatting to her. So every go he’d be chatting to her. We have a bunch of bonus footage of that too. So they’re just chatting and eventually she’s up sitting in the fountain with him as he’s doing the roll ups and stuff. So I guess he just got her number before he left. And this whole trip we had made plans to go to Philly with Quim Cardona, and Chris is a huge Quim fan and he’s like: ‘oh my god I’m so excited. I’ve always wanted to skate Philly and to go with Quim! It’s gonna be so sick!’ So we had made plans to leave early the next day at 8am. We were gonna go meet Quim in New Jersey and drive down. So that evening he ends up going to a party and ended up meeting up with that art school girl, the girl in the boots… So I didn’t see him that night. We ended up splitting off and he went and did his thing or whatever and I go home and I go to bed early because I gotta wake up early to get ready to got to Philly. I’m going with Taylor (Nawrocki), Daniel Kim and supposedly Chris. Ok so early in the morning, like four in the morning or something I get a text from Chris saying: ‘Hey man, I’m really sorry to do this, but I have to flake out on the trip to Philly. Long story short – I’m in love.’ (Everyone laughs) ‘There’s nothing else that would stop me from skating with Quim Cardona in Philly than something serious’
Will: So this text is from 4:30 in the morning?
Yeah, I woke up and saw it. So in general you don’t fall in love at four in the morning.
Arthur: Yeah nothing good happens at four in the morning.
Yeah nothing really good happens at that point. So in the morning when we are going I give him the safety text like ‘ hey man, I got your text, but if you still wanna come you can met us at the train station,’ but I didn’t get any reply. So I thought ok he’s sealed his fate, good for him. So we go and we’re in the car about 45 minutes out of the city and we get a text from Chris: ‘Hey man, have you guys left yet?’
‘Nah man, we’re gone; we left. We sent you a couple of texts.’
And then he’s like ‘ah shit, fuck. I really wish I could have made it.’
And then I’m like: ‘well so… You still in love?’
‘Well, she’s cool,’ Chris says. (Everyone laughs)
Arthur: So she wasn’t ‘the one’ eh?
No. It ended up being an amazing day in Philly too; we got hammers in the snow. It was amazing.
Will: What a story! Ok how did you coordinate the illustrations in
Spirit Quest
with
Cosme Fernandez
? And actually, first of all, how did you meet him?
Before I ever met Cosme, the first exposure I had with him was maybe ten years ago with a Crailtap contest. They had people make re-edits of footage from Fully Flared or something and he did rotoscoping where he did line animation of all the skating. I thought it was really cool. And I’ve always thought this guy was so sick and when I was starting this project, maybe a year into it, and I do animation and motion graphics as a full-time job, so I could do the line animation myself – and a lot of the ones in the video I actually did do myself, but he’s better than I could ever be. He does the super-artistic line animation transitions and the character animations and stuff.
Will: So how did you actually meet him after seeing his work ten years back?
Basically I just met him from being on the Slap message boards. He was always on there and I just emailed him and pitched him my idea that was something a little different than what he usually does, which is straight skating stuff. So I pitched the idea of skaters morphing into animals and that kind of stuff and he was super-hyped on the idea and was game for pretty much an unlimited amount of work, which he did, for free. And I’m trying repay him in any way I can because he really did an amazing job. Some good examples of what he did were the line animation of the chameleon mural transitioning into the real chameleon and Taylor turning into a gorilla.
Will: How did he actually do it? Did you send him frames or actual clips?
A bit of both. A lot of what I would do is edit a specific section he’d need to work on and just demarcate which frames it would have to come between. He would just take it from there and send it back and then sometimes I’d send it back again if I thought something needed to work better. And every single time I’d basically put more of a demand on him he would just be like ‘ok yeah, cool.’ Cosme was just a really awesome person to work with. And most things like this you animate at 15 frames per second, but at times in the video it was too jerky so he animated it at 30 frames per second so it was a lot of extra work. But that just made all the difference and it made it look super smooth. Hopefully after this video he’ll have a better platform to show his work. He was just really amazing and he came here (to London) for the premiere so that was really special.
Will: Was that the first time you met him in person?
Yeah! Before I had only talked to him through emails about this whole process. He’s such a pleasant human being.
Will: He must have been extra psyched to see his animations on the screen for the first time here at the premiere here in London with you!
Yeah that’s the thing, I had basically held the video ransom from him. Because he was like: ‘Ok it’s done. Should you send it over?’ And I was like ‘nope! See you at one of the premieres.’ It’s way more special that way. It’s the same with viewing your own part in a video: it’s way more special if you get to see it for the first time in the whole context of a premiere with everybody else. So other than two exceptions in this video, everybody was seeing their part for the first time. So I think it made a special night for hopefully everyone.
Arthur: I can’t believe he did all that work for free without having met you in person… The dedication!
He was super-dedicated! He’s super-down for independent skateboarding and skateboarding in general.
Will: Ok all the animal shots… How many hours of nature documentaries did you sit through? And also, how did you line it up with the animal movements? Did you watch the nature docs and think ‘ah this guy skates like this animal’ or did you see an animal and it reminded you of a specific skater?
Both those ways. Sometimes I found a nature clip first and I thought ‘ah that really looks like someone doing this’ and then I would on purpose try and film a trick the exact same way the nature footage was shot so I could match them. And then other times I would film a trick and watch it back later and ‘oh damn, that really looks like a fucking llama’ or something and then I’d go and watch hours of llama footage until I found the right matching one. And then sometimes it would just come together magically, but that was pretty rare. Basically it was the result of me watching hundreds and hundreds of hours of nature documentaries.
Will: So Colin what do you have planned next?
I just wanna be a person. I’ve been saying I’m retired and that’s been going well for me so far. I really would love to keep working in skateboarding, but for now I can’t.
Making up for the lack of a drone with a 20-year old camera and kite string. Ph. Allen Ying
Arthur: What was the last trick you filmed for the video?
When I exploded on that varial flip and turned into a whale on that street gap in SF. I could only really skate a handful of times through the entire three years of filming the video and really I think I just kept setting myself back from making it but I was sort of obsessed with finishing the video. I could have cut it short at any point because it’s a long fucking video…
Will: But it’s one, like you said, that you kind of have to watch more than once to catch some of the things…
Yeah and I mean the video is cut down as close as it could be. I have literally hours of extra footage still, but I just had to finish it because I was obsessed with all these ideas that I just had to get out of my head. So I had to finish it because it was going to kill me if not, but I did and I’m happy. So now my dream is to just skate. So hopefully I’ll get over these health issues so I can just be a skater again. I can skate and I want to – I never meant to be a filmer, I just stumbled into it somehow by getting hurt. My filming career is kind of bookended by injury: I started it because I couldn’t skate for a year because I was hurt. So when I was in high school I had a shitty camera, but after that when I was hurt I just bought a new camera so I could be out with my friends…
Will: The camaraderie is one of the best things about skating…
Yeah! I was talking yesterday with Jake Harris about filming, in particular him being filmed and how uncomfortable he is with it. Because usually when he goes out to film for a project of him doing tricks, his boys aren’t filmers because is the filmer in his crew so he has to go out with someone he’s not really close friends with, so it ends up being awkward and not that fun. That’s the point, what percentage of a skate day is spent filming a trick? 5-10 per cent? The rest is just clowning around, hanging out with your friends and just fucking around. So that’s the most important thing, the relationship. So I bought another camera to film and I sorted ended up here, and now I’m sort of forced to end by another injury. I really lost my mind in the making of this.
Will: Yeah I bet. But you seem alright here, I dunno…
This is my third week of vacation now so I’m slowly recharging.
Arthur: So probably no more skate videos for a little bit?
Um yeah. Well I do say that and I’ve already made another new thing that’s going to be coming out soon, but I can’t do the skate filming anymore. I can’t do the fisheye skate filming anymore. There’s other ways to film and I have a ton of other conceptual things and that I’d love to film. I would have loved to retire my VX years ago, but I put myself into this…
Will: Well you wanted to put forth these things in your head so…
Exactly, and the VX was really the only medium by which a lot of these ideas could have worked. A lot of the split screen stuff, if it had been HD, I don’t think it really would have worked because it’s just too crisp and you would have been able to tell the mistakes and the ways things didn’t perfectly line up more without the fisheye and the VX quality. And also a lot of ideas… I mean you’ve seen VX footage a thousand times, but have you seen it underwater? Or in outer space?
Will: Or in a pipe?
Or we dropped the camera from the top of a building in Soho, New York on a string. That was for Connor Kammerer’s intro; it was terrifying.
Will: I bet! Thanks Colin.
Spirit Quest is available now on DVD at all finer skate shops. For a Spirit Quest digital download head
here
.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 22, 2021
Vladimir Film Festival 2021 recap
Words and photos by Will Harmon
After the pandemic stopped a full-fledged festival from happening last year it was great to be back in Croatia for
Vladimir
in 2021. Upon landing in Pula on September 14th it was quickly apparent that VX (or Vladimir number ten) was going to be quite busy this year. I say this because there were already about 15 Brits on our RyanAir flight from Stansted, and we knew about a dozen more were coming from Heathrow on a flight later that day. As we made our way to Fažana via taxi it struck me how strange it was to be back in a van in a foreign county with loads of other skateboarders. In fact the last ‘skate trip/event’ I had been on was
to here
, just two years prior.
Paul Labadie flips
The festival officially began at Kasarna, which is the name of the community centre complete with indoor mini-ramp acquired by the Skate Club August Šenoa, an organisation started up by the Fažana locals. Across from the centre an old mini-golf course has been constructed into
a DIY spot as well
. As we approached Kasarna that evening I was nervous for the start of the films as a lot of us were quite worried due to Covid about packing into the small community centre as it had been raining all day. But my worries quickly dissipated when we arrived as we saw a huge screen erected up outside complete with projector and loads of chairs. Conveniently it had stopped raining just a couple hours before the films were to begin as well. Nikola Racan, founder of Vladimir and ultimate MC, started off the festival with a speech thanking everyone for coming and a little about the films we were to see that night.
Nikola Racan and Delta
In the past few years Vladimir has gotten bigger, more well-known and they’ve featured big budget films and dozens you’ve seen on the major skate media’s websites, but the essence of the festival is to showcase underground productions and local videos. The first film was
Nevolja
by Hrojve Zubović, which was a video all filmed at night in Zagreb, Croatia’s capital. There’s something thrilling about watching a skate video all filmed at night whilst you are outside in the darkness yourself. Nevolja translates to ‘trouble’, which I’m guessing is what skaters are often referred to by angry Zagreb city-goers. The whole video is nice, and for once the drone shots didn’t bother me, but the stand out for me was Zagreb local
Antonio Pekovi
ć
. He does this crazy taildrop thing into a subway that’s just mental, I dunno, hard to describe but when this is eventually online you’ll see why I mean. There were two videos from Prague with a noticeable lack of Stalin Square footage. I think I counted a total of four Stalin tricks in both full-length videos, quite impressive. Nikola asked me to come up and introduce Mike Mag’s extended length version of
The Saudade Express
. I’ve never met Mike, but as
his videos
have often been on this site I suppose that’s why he asked me.  It was sick to see all the
CPT Mafia
heads in the friends section of this longer version, and I’m truly a fan of what Mike does. I’m sure he’ll make the journey to Croatia himself for next year’s festival. In between films a guy came over to us with a bag of crisps offering them and simply saying: ‘Covid?’ I declined, but somehow this joke somehow didn’t get old and he kept going around again and again…
The Samurai Safari crew
In attendance was Nick Richards who showed the world for the first time his two newest
Noct
urnup
videos. These were all shot at night before the pandemic in Taipei and Seoul. Daryl Dominguez, Tom Delion, Chris Colburn, Jasper Dohrs and Marquise Henry all went in, but the highlight for me was Daryl’s 360 flip from a drop into a steep bank at dawn, just as the sun was coming up. I’m sure these edits will be on the interweb soon. Speaking of going online soon was the last video of the evening: Jon Wolf’s Samurai Safari (
Fuga
Vol. 2). All the Italians were here at Vladimir for this… Even Daniel Cardone with his acoustic guitar. As you may have seen in the latest issue of
Free
the video is a result of a month of filming in Italy by Jon Wolf. First in Milan and then onto Sardinia for a Samurai Distribution camping/skate mission all around the island. Jon Wolf told me recently that it was a bit of a spiritual awakening for him this trip. Once you see the edit for yourself you can see tell it was nothing but good vibes with friends; something desperately needed after the past 18 months of what we’ve all been dealing with. Jacopo Carrozi, Mauro Caruso, Mattia Turca, Martino Cattaneo, Schianti Lepori, Simone Verona and more all dazzled in the edit, but don’t take my word for it, you can see it right here on the site this Thursday. (shameless plug?)
Daryl Dominguez and the mini-ramp in Kasarna
With the films over for the evening people headed into the mini-ramp for only about five minutes until the cops showed up. In years past the nights in Kasarna at the mini-ramp had lasted until six and seven AM, but Croatia is under a curfew for Covid at the moment so indoor restaurants, bars and venues cannot be open past midnight. We remained outside and wandered to the beach, somehow two crates of beers appeared and the debauchery continued. A small famous tattooed Australian skater (recently called the Keith Richards of skateboarding) was somehow angry at us British lot, maybe because Giz was mocking him and poking him in the ribs, but anyways he started throwing rocks at us.  Throwing him in the sea was discussed, but then it started pissing it down, we all became soaked ourselves and thought otherwise. We huddled under a closed-for-the-day beach bar for a little bit longer until the rain stopped at 4am. Then it was time to go home.
Fort Forno and the 100+ year-old natural transition.
On Friday the 17th the festivities began at Fort Forno, an old fort from WWI with a semi-famous transition wall. First up was Hollis Hampton Jones, she had followed skaters around in Athens, Paris and Nashville and Vladimir printed a limited edition book of her stories. She was introduced by Sylvain Tognelli, who helped her edit the stories.
Oli Buergin hits it frontside.
As the sun set next up was our pal
Kyle Beachy
, who flew in all the way from Chicago, to give a reading from his new book ‘The Most Fun Thing’. I highly recommend you pick up a
copy
, it’s filled with lovely essays and insights about skateboarding, and Kyle isn’t afraid to speak his mind or cause offence when deemed necessary.
Kyle Beachy reads from ‘The Most Fun Thing’
When it became fully dark it was time for the films to begin. The Vladimir crew had put up a huge screen and bleacher seats so that the 200+ crowd were able to have an unobstructed view. The first film was
Stephen Fox: The Motion Picture
about everyone’s favourite Welsh nomad Sox. I’d never seen full a part from Sox, so this was really a treat, his boardslide to blunt pop-in on the Clapham Junction quarters was a highlight for me; Jackson (Davis) really smashed it with this one. Next Jackson debuted the new Jordan Thackeray part. This was deemed a ‘Director’s Cut’ with the music Jackson and Jordan originally intended, but were unable to get the rights to. In this day and age, getting the music for an online release… Well, ‘You can’t always get what you want…’ You’ll see a version with a different tune soon, but no matter the music there’s no denying that Jordan is really going to go places with this part. I mean one video part containing 4 tricks that are covers! Come on, you know it’s a banger.
Sox and Jackson Davis
At this point I decided it was time for some hair of the dog as I’d been battling a hangover all day and luckily there were cheap beers and wine on offer and Tibor came through with a delicious curry. That saved me. The Vans Europe crew was in attendance for the
Dichiarazio
ne di un Dato di Fatto: Incompiuto
film, which was a voyage through Sicily filmed by Ale Formenti and
Mauro Caruso
. The crew hit all these concrete structures throughout the island which were predominately half built buildings where the construction had halted due to corruption and Mafia demands. It was a nice change to see the Vans Europe crew filmed on VX, and of course they all excelled. Martino scooped frontside airs on a mammoth full pipe as well as 50-50ing a Heath-esque 17-stair hubba. Pfannman fakie flipped a roof gap and Yeelen applied his unique approach to spots with tricks no one would have ever thought of. Of course Doobie had some hammers and Rob Maatman was as smooth as ever, but what really stood out for me was Oscar Candon. Coming through with such style and speed it was really a treat to see Oscar’s approach to all the Sicilian concrete wonders.
Doobie. Ph. Kingsford
Fort Forno
Quicksand
from Raul Zgomba (of
Tabula Rasa
fame) was next. This had the crowd cheering with local Croatian skaters featured and familiar Pula spots seen. Some great skating in
Quicksand
by Dino Coce and Antonio Peković. Raul continues to hold it down for the local scene.
Short Bus 2
by Josh ‘Pizza Box’ Hancock showed all of the behind the scenes skating that went down during the filming of
Loveletters
. Some impressive Grant Taylor moves in this one. And the last film of the evening was the final Loveletter to skateboarding, this one featuring Jeff Grosso’s son Oliver. It was heartfelt and a good closing for the night.
Saturday came and the events were due to take place in Pula in the evening, which gave everyone time to skate the city beforehand. Pula isn’t huge, but there’s some good spots, hills and the ground is so smooth it glistens. I witnessed Joe Paget wallride down a bunch of stairs and Charlie Munro make light work of those same steps as well. I got to skate a little myself for the first time of the trip and I filmed the others before we had to head to the Kino Valli theatre. When we arrived there was an exhibition inside by the magazine
Dolores
showcasing the accomplished all-girl skate crew in Barcelona. Lots of sick shots of the crew hitting Barca’s many spots as well as the Spotter DIY.
Outside the Kino Valli theatre
After Nikola welcomed everyone to the theatre the first film began:
How poles become white
. Now the films usually shown in this theatre for Vladimir are usually longer, more documentary style and
How poles become white
by Tino Bucholz fit the bill. The film wasn’t really about skateboarding at all, in fact the only connection to skating was that the protagonist happened to be a skateboarder. But the general theme of the film was about living as an immigrant in Poland and the Netherlands and how one is treated. It delved into some themes of capitalism, philosophy, racism, parenting, etc., but it follows three people and their daily lives in Poznan Poland.
After a 10-minute smoke/bathroom break the next film that showed was
Desert Dogs
by Samuel Morris. It follows the lives of two young Moroccan skaters Aya and Ibrahim. Unbeknownst to many, quite a number of skaters had left their families along with the traditional Muslim way of life to voyage to Taghazout, a small fishing village with an incredible skatepark. These skaters camped out in tents, slept under the stars and sometimes on friends’ couches just to be close to the park. Being a woman skateboarder in a predominately Muslim country is an incredible feat in itself, but I don’t want to give away the whole story, let’s just say
Desert Dogs
was quite moving. It makes you realise how privileged we are in the western world by having easy access to skate shops, skate spots and open-minded attitudes towards skateboarding.
The last film of the evening was Jeremy Elkin’s
All the Streets are Silent.
I had been really waiting for this one as I heard it was superb. With Rosario Dawson, Busta Rhymes, Harold Hunter, Mike Hernandez, Vinny Ponte, Jeff Pang, Kid Capri and more, the star-studded cast really delivered. Most of the film was the result of Eli Gesner’s recovered Sony handycam footage, interspersed RB Umali’s footage, dozens of interviews and an overall narration my Mr Gesner himself. It shows the connection between skateboarding and Hip Hop in New York from 1987 to ’97. The never-before-seen footage is worth a watch alone (that unseen Jay-Z freestyle at Mars!), but the whole film is brilliant. My only critique is at times it felt like a Supreme commercial as the majority of people interviewed seemed to be strategically decked out in Supreme gear. But honestly the film was so sick, can’t wait to watch again.
After we all left the theatre and headed to Rojc, a repurposed Army Barracks built in the 1870s, which has now been transformed into a community centre. I had skated there before on previous visits, and out back they have a nice DIY wallride spot.
Rojc
In front there’s a fabulous new skatepark, but it was 11pm so we headed into the courtyard of Rojc for a late night Punk show. At first I didn’t know what to expect, but then the band started playing at it’s as if I was transported back to 1989 listening to the Santa Cruz’s
Streets On Fire
soundtrack. It was sick: people were moshing, Pepe Tirelli got lifted up by the crowd and even #NakedDave made an appearance. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
By midnight the band was done and we moved on to drinking on the steps out front. People laughed, skated and enjoyed one of those mild September Croatian nights where you warm enough in a t-shirt. Joel Banner handed a super-sized bottle of Radler that he had poured chocolate rum into, it tasted like candy… I thought: ‘Arthur would love this…’ You should come next year Mr Derrien.
Sunday: One of the greatest things about Vladimir is you can take a dip in the sea to cure those morning hangovers. It’s a great place to snorkel and there’s rock jump spots nearby where they often hold the famous Outlook festival.
So after a swim and long lunch it was almost time to hop on the ferry to Brijuni island for the last films of the festival. The Vladimir-subsidised ferry ride departed Fažana at 6pm and this was one of the more tame journeys this time as compared to years past.
We arrived on the island and Marina and Marko explained that we had an hour to roam around, see the zebras and explore the national park before the films were to begin. They reminded everyone to respect the National Park and pick up your trash.
Marina and Marko address the crowd
The clouds were getting quite dark at this point, but everyone headed off nonetheless. A few people rented golf carts to cruise but the crew I was with decided to walk. We got about 200 metres and then the thunder and lightning started. Lights drops of rain then fell and a few of us decided to head to the nearby park bar with tables and big umbrellas out front. Just as we got there it really started pouring, like monsoon style rain. Feeling completely dry and quite smug we ordered Aperol Spritzs excellently made by two 14-year-old sisters with their father watching on. Stuck under this little bar roof the rain didn’t let up, a waterfall formed down the terrace steps… Slowly the rest of our crew (the ones who decided to just chill under the bleachers) spilled in. Soaked was understatement. This guys looked like they had a dip in the sea fully clothed. Anyways, more spritzs and then we headed over to the Brijuni Island Hotel where the back-up plan commenced. As Tito’s outdoor theatre got rained out a screen and projector were set up in the hotel’s ballroom. As the festival’s attendees piled in, most people were soaked. Gio Grazzani slid off his wet outfit and fashioned himself a toga with what I assume was the hotel’s white towels.
The Brijuni Hotel
Before the scheduled films of the evening Nikola called up Luka Pinto and Jim Craven on stage. Continuing with the festival’s traditions, Nikola told the crowd that there would be showing some last minute additions to the film line-up that evening. Luka’s Crew Report (Croatia edition) played like a ‘Come Visit Istria’ tourist video for skateboarders. The amount of footage his crew got on the 2019 Vladimir trip is unbelievable, like, how did he get it all in? There’s loads of spots in it that I’d never even seen before and this is my fourth time coming to the festival. They truly went above and beyond. Next Jim Craven’s ‘where the land meets the sea’ played. It was a rough edit, but once again, for the 3rd film in these past few days, Daryl Dominguez and Tom Delion shined. The film centres on a two trips with
Grey
and Vans around the coastal towns of Great Britain. Conor Charleson does what he does and rammed into some tight transitions but then this time there was even a nollie frontside heelflip involved! The trip looked sick, which you can see photos of in the latest
Grey
, but you’ll have to wait for final version to be released, it’s due out sometime in the new year.
Now onto the first feature film of the evening, which apparently was just finished the day before with some last-minute editing.
Revolutions on Granite
by Brendan Gilliam and Peter Conopask was by far my favourite film of the entire week.
Revolutions
is a documentary about Maidan Plaza aka Independence Square in Kyiv, Ukraine. Since the late eighties it’s always been famous place to skate in Kyiv, you may recognise it from an old I-Path trip there in 2007 or more recently when the National Skateboard Co
went
. The plaza has had a couple refurbishments over the years but it’s always been a place where skaters in Ukraine met up to skate. But in 2014
the plaza became world renowned
for another reason: it was the main protest site for Ukraine’s revolution, which resulted in the ousting of elected president Viktor Yanukovych and the overthrow of the Ukrainian government. The overwhelming view of the Ukranian citizens for the past couple decades was to ally more closely with the EU and Yanukovych kept stalling due to his close relationship with Russia and Vladimir Putin. It all came to a head in February with protests, riot police and deadly shootings that left 82 people killed and more than 1000 injured. All this happened at the main skate spot in Kyiv, can you imagine? The skaters talked about walking through and seeing dead bodies on the ground, right where they used do kickflips and crooked grinds. After allowing the military to use live ammunition on protesters on February 22nd, 2014 finally Yanukovych left the capital. The protestors stormed the capital buildings, peace was restored and the country received help from the EU. I feel like my description kind of gives the film a disservice, but trust me, it’s truly incredible. I was so impressed I missed a large portion of Rick Charnoski’s last film as I was talking to Brendan and Pete about
Revolutions
. Sorry Rick.
Nick Sharratt and Kyle Beachy
We had to catch the ferry back to Fažana at 11pm so after one last drink at the hotel bar we all crowded onto the ferry. This time the rowdiness was in full effect. Pepe crowd surfed again, Jacopo somehow had a razor scooter and #NakedDave made another appearance.
Drunk lads
Once we got back to Fažana the wildness continued. It’s easy to get wrapped up in that ‘Fire it up’ vibe but I briefly thought about how much Vladimir had changed since my first time in 2014. It was feeling like it was turning into a more King of the Road or CPH Open-style event except this was a small Croatian fishing village. I worried about the repercussions of Vladimir’s growing popularity.
Ferry ride ruckus
The next day unfortunately my previous night’s worries were confirmed… Two golf carts had been smashed on the island that Sunday and apparently there was beer bottles and trash left everywhere in the National Park. Vladimir is a great festival and an incredible time, but if you come please respect the village, the island and all the residents. It won’t be able to continue if the village starts to loathe us skateboarders.
I want to thank Nikola, Marina, Marko, Oleg, Tibor and all the filmmakers, writers and artists that attended this year. Thank you from the bottom of my heart for what you do. It’s always the highlight of my year going to Vladimir. See you in 2022.
Solid crew

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 23, 2021
Tiago & Marina
Marina Gabriela, Kickflip, Brasília. Photo: Paulo Macedo
Wholesome content alert! What you’re about to dive into is a heartwarming tale of friendship between a couple of ridiculously talented skateboarders from Jaguariúna, in Brazil. The oldest of the two you’re probably – as in if you have functioning eyes – already a fan of, whilst the other, if not already on your radar, most certainly will be by the time you put this mag down… That’s right we’re talking about the hungriest (both in terms of pieces sushi consumed and distance travelled in switch back tail position), most gangster swongo pusher of all time, Tiago Lemos, and his picnic table kickflipping protégé, Marina Gabriela. For a little while now the pair have been going around together stomping the fuck out of ledge tricks from Southbank to J-Kwon and despite their 14-year age gap, are notorious for relentlessly taking the piss out of each other (something their boy Felipe Ventura did a banging job of capturing in this interview). So yeah, basically get ready for a confirmation that your favourite skater is also a humble, certified legend of a human being, but also to discover how impressed he is by the skills of the 17-year-old girl that loves to rinse him about his trousers.­ —Arthur Derrien
Tiago Lemos: Hey what’s up Marina!
Marina Garbiela: What’s up!
Felipe Ventura: Yo, take off that hat; let us see the haircut you just got!
TL: You gotta be fucking kidding me! The barber straight up took a shit on my head; he messed up the whole thing ha ha.
MG: Ha ha ha.
Tiago Lemos, backside 50-50, Sant Celoni. Photo: Gerard Riera.
You better shave it already!
TL: Sorry actually I think I can’t do this with this haircut… Just kidding! Ha ha. Let’s do this.
MG: So how’s everything in Norway?
TL: It’s pretty good, I really like it here, all the spots are dope, hard to skate but I like that, and the footage looks sick. I’ve been lucky enough to enjoy the summer up here, been skating a lot, stacking footage. I’ve made a lot of friends… They’re all super good at skateboarding here, like they’ve destroyed all the spots already; you really gotta think twice before you film something in Oslo.
MG: Did they take you somewhere else to skate?
TL: They took me to Bergen, eight hours away from Oslo, a small city with lots of spots but unfortunately I rolled my ankle on the very first day of the trip so I didn’t get to skate. I was just chilling. But here in Oslo I like all the spots, they take me to a different spot everyday, I’ve got everything I need, a filmer, photographers, the homies to skate with… It’s super nice out here.
MG: And how did you end up in Oslo?
TL: I came to be with my girlfriend, I hadn’t seen her in seven months. Also I came to skate, I was here two and half years ago for the X-Games and I saw that the city was dope to skate but didn’t get a chance to street skate at all… I even mentioned to Felipe that we should have stayed longer but there was another contest on the following weekend. So now it’s perfect, I have more time so I can really get to know the city and all that. I don’t get lost here anymore, which is good. And with this pandemic and everything, to have had this opportunity to travel is such a blessing. I thought I was gonna be in Brazil for a minute.
MG: How is Oslo different from Jaguariúna?
TL: It’s way more expensive ha ha! But it also has way more skate spots… The city here is beautiful, as is all the nature… Everything is clean… Unlike Brazil you can drink water from anywhere; I like that. The city is not too big so you can skate from spot to spot; I like cities where you can use your skateboard as your transportation, just like New York or Montreal. It’s so different to Jaguariúna.
Tiago Lemos, swicth ollie, Sant Celoni. Photo: Gerard Riera.
We saw that you went camping one time, how was that?
TL: Hanna is friends with a couple that camps all the time, so they took us to the wild; they have all the camping gear…
We saw those skinny pants you were wearing to camp ha ha.
MG: The Internet will not forget those skinny pants ha ha.
TL: Oh lord! Ha ha ha! Please forgive me! A bunch of people sent me messages asking what happened to my pants… I told them to chill ha ha. They were just camping pants! Baggy pants won’t keep you warm ha ha. And those weren’t even my pants; the homie just let me use his gear.
MG: It looked like you were ready to get back to Jaguariúna to join all the cowboys in a rodeo. (Editor’s note: Jaguariúna is famous in Brazil for its rodeos)
TL: But seriously, the homie was a professional at camping. He took us to a super beautiful place, it was a different experience and I really liked it.
Marina Gabriela, frontside 50-50, Brasília. Photo: Paulo Macedo.
What about the food over there, do you like it?
TL: I haven’t really eaten traditional Norwegian food, I’ve just been eating sushi, pho, they have it all… I’m barely eating meat here since Hanna is a vegetarian.
MG: I’m gonna send you some açai.
TL: There’s an açaí place here too, super good, I’ve been eating there a lot. They even have a team! Michael Sommer is their TM. He told me he was gonna hook me up but I’m still waiting ha ha.
MG: And what about the skate scene compared to Brazil?
TL: There’s not as many skaters as in São Paulo, but it seems like they’re all really united: they are always up to something, fixing the spots… They are true skateboarders. Magnus (Bordewick) has everything you need to make a spot skate-able inside his car; he fixes the spots for the homies, builds DIY and all that. This is what’s missing in Jaguariúna right now… The kids there, they only think about skating at the park and chilling.
MG: The guys from Jaguariúna that used to do that all moved to Barcelona. There are some new kids but they need to get out of the city in order to hit the streets. There’s not that many spots other than the bus station in town.
Tiago Lemos, switch varial heelflip, Oslo. Photo: Lars Gartå.
So in Jaguariúna you are the only girl that skates right?
MG: Yep, it’s only me, I mostly hang out with the boys only, I grew up like that and they had a lot of respect for me. It was good ‘cause I wanted to skate up to their level, learn the same tricks. But I wish there were more girls around too, I always liked going to contests because it was the only time I’d get to hang out with other girls. But now that I’m travelling more, staying in São Paulo more, I hope I can street skate with more girls.
Talking about the Jaguariúna skate scene, what do you guys think it’s the biggest difference between now and when you guys first started to skate?
MG: When I first started there were way more people skating the park, it was always full.
TL: I feel the same, it was super crowded, we used to travel to a lot of contests together, to skate different cities, make friends from all over: we had a tight crew back in the day. I just hope that Marina and I inspire more girls and boys from our little city to skate.
Do you think because you left Jaguariúna, things slowed down a little?
TL: I don’t know, I wish there were more skaters from my hometown following their dreams. I was the only one from my city to turn pro, travel the world and now Marina is doing her thing…
So was it Tiago that inspired you to pursue a skate career? When did you guys meet?
MG: It was when I was little… My brother used to take me to the skatepark with him. I remember meeting Tiago the day I learned how to drop-in… He was the one supporting me, telling me I could do it, so after that I started looking up to him and tried to skate with him every time he was around. There was this time when he showed up at the park and started filming me, posted it on his Instagram, I didn’t even have an Instagram at the time, but I was hyped. I got on Instagram because he told me so.
TL: I don’t really remember the first time when we met, but I remember there were no girls in the park other than the homies’ girlfriends. She was the only one there to skate; I could tell she really liked it since she was always there. Then I noticed she was becoming good, her kickflips and heelflips were really dope. I knew her brothers and sisters from before, they all tried to skate at some point but she was the one with the feeling for it, she was a natural. So that’s when I started to film her and from there we became friends.
Marina Gabriela, 360 flip, São Paulo. Photo: Allan Carvalho.
Did you plan on helping her?
TL: Not at all, I was just hyped on her skating. I wanted to show that there was a girl from my hometown that was into skateboarding too. She reminded me of myself when I first started. So every time I saw her at the skatepark I asked to film her, she was super happy, and I would always say let’s do this again tomorrow, but then the next day I forgot about it and she kept hitting me up. She was so down to skate.
MG: I remember this one Sunday when you took me and the other kids to street skate for the first time, I kickflipped some stairs and you filmed it, then we all went to my house to have lunch with my family and back to the streets again, it was fun…
From the streets of Jaguariúna to the streets of the world.
MG: Yes, the first time we saw each other outside Brazil was in Montreal, I was there for a contest and Tiago was there for the Dime Glory Challenge, then London, we were there for the SLS and he asked me to go film on the streets with him instead of just skating the course, then LA, that was a crazy one, I was coming back home but my flight got delayed. Do you remember that?
TL: Yes, I had no idea you were in California until someone mentioned it. I texted you and you were at the airport waiting on the next flight so I told you to stay for another two weeks, called your mom and picked you up from the airport
MG: It was crazy unexpected. I ended up staying for another 15 days.
Tiago Lemos, nollie 180 switch crooks, Barcelona. Ph: Gerard Riera.
I love how you’re always pranking Tiago on all these trips, like that day we were at some hotel and he was listening to some gangsta rap while in the shower, but he left his phone outside, so you switched it to some country music and had him finish his shower to some horrible music ha ha. Oh and you even filmed him coming out the bathroom with the speaker playing that song and posted it on the gram telling everybody that was the kind of music he was really into! Ha ha.
TL: She can be a little brat! Ha ha. But it’s fun!
MG: He’s the one messing with me the whole time; don’t get it twisted.
Any highlights from those trips?
TL: I’ll never forget the day she kickflipped over the picnic table, that was impressive! She didn’t want to try, so I kept telling her: ‘try an ollie, you can do it’, she did it super fast, so I kept pushing her to do a kickflip. It only took three or four tries; everybody was tripping. While she was trying a couple of boys showed up at the spot. They were trying to ollie the table while she kickflipped it; they kinda felt intimidated by her and left the school.
MG: I remember that day; you were filming a commercial with P-Rod. I couldn’t believe I did that trick, it felt impossible at first.
So it must feel good to have a friend like Tiago around pushing you to do some tricks?
MG: Totally. I really wasn’t sure about it because the picnic table is so high… If it wasn’t for him I wouldn’t have tried
at all.
TL: She could have heeflipped it too, just saying…
And now you both skate for NB#, Crupie, Andale, Mob and Primitive. How does that feel?
TL: It’s so good to have someone from my city around, to skate and travel with, and also to be able to help her with whatever she needs, you know? Like help her with an idea to film a trick or a line, or help her cope with a certain pressure if she’s feeling some, those kinds of things. It’s also good to witness her evolution since that first drop-in, but not just with skateboarding, with life in general… You know growing up, travelling, doing things on her own; I’m proud of her.
MG: Feels amazing, because I grew up watching him skate; he kept me motivated. I remember one time he blasted a frontside flip next to me so high that I said you could have gone over me with that pop. He’s always inspired me, especially now that we skate for the same companies.
Funny thing is that most of the people think Tiago hooked you up with the brands, but actually he basically got on NB# because of you Marina. I was talking to Tyrone trying to get you on and he asked about the Jaguariúna combo.
TL: Also with Primitive, I was thinking about asking the guys to flow her some boards, but before I could say anything Alan Hannon told me it would be nice to give her some boards. I can’t wait to see what’s next for her, hopefully she can fulfil her dreams… I wanna see her travel the world, put out video parts and all that.
So what’s next for you guys?
TL: By the time most people read this I’ll be in Barcelona with Anthony Claravall, we might go to Portugal too. After that I wanna come back to Norway for a couple days to visit Hanna’s family and then back to Brazil. I wanna stay in Europe as much as possible right now, because if I go back to Brazil I’ll be stuck there again until this pandemic ends. We’ll see how it goes…
MG: As for me, I’ll be in São Paulo filming, skating and waiting until it’s ok to travel again, as
I wanna go back to California and stay there for a little while to film and drop a video part soon.
Tiago Lemos, switch backside 50-50, Barcelona. Photo: Gerard Riera.

================================================================================

BY admin  •  May 18, 2015
Anthony Van Engelen Interview
Photos: Sam Ashley
A couple hours before the London premiere of Vans’ Propeller we caught up with Anthony Van Engelen to talk about skating in LA, the re-booted Alien Workshop, FA, Hockey and more…             -Will Harmon
What and when was the first thing you filmed for
Propeller
?
The trick that comes to mind is this trick I did in Cyprus that was literally five years ago, which was kind of funny to see in there. It’s actually the feeble grind around a curve…
Oh the one that (Jonathan) Mehring shot! The one with the Slap Photoshop thread…
Yeah that one. That trick is just ancient.
What did you think of that Photoshop thread?
Ah I liked it; I thought it was hilarious. It was funny.
So you started filming for
Propeller
riding for the Workshop and in the middle you and (Jason) Dill started Fucking Awesome. Did filming for Vans slow down at all while you guys started FA?
Nah, I went pretty steady through it. I think Dill maybe experienced more of the brunt of starting a brand than I did because so much of the creative end falls on him. And he kind of actually got injured at the time too so it kind of worked out that he was able to do that. But with starting FA you know it really wasn’t that big of a deal to get some boards and shirts made. Plus we had help from our friend Jimmy that came over from the Workshop and we were totally tanked he left and helped us with the day-to-day and shipping…. He wears a lot of hats. So we had him and another partner that Dill always worked with for FA, Mikey, who does a lot of the business side of things. So I was able to skate a lot fortunately.
Can you tell us a little bit more about the time in Barcelona where you lost it? Do you know what pushed you over the edge? I heard stories of breaking glasses and chairs at Manolo… When was this? Was this the DC days?
Yeah that story in particular was during the filming for DC. I don’t know… I was just drinking too much. I’m just a bad drunk. That had been going on for years but I think about that time I began to get into a bit of a darker area.
And at what point after that did you realise something had to be done?
Well I went for a few more years… A lot of more years after that I mean… How dark do you want to go? (Laughs)
So do you think you’ve put in the most you ever had for a video part with this one for
Propeller
?
Yeah I think so. My life is a lot simpler now and I’m older. I’m more focused now and I was able to give it that you know.
I’m not sure if it was around for
Mindfield
, but the TF you guys have… Was it a valuable asset this time?
Yes for sure. I couldn’t do this stuff now without it. Because street skating in LA, it’s not what it used to be. If you want to skate
spot
spot, it’s the weekends as it’ll be a school. I mean I street skate every fucking day a lot and sometimes I don’t go to the park for weeks at a time, but when you are filming for a video, especially now, you need that place to go to learn things and figure it out to go to the street and find a spot for that particular trick. I feel like back in the day I just made video parts skating schoolyards and USC you know, as that’s all we skated… So the park opens it up a little bit.
So what do you think of the re-booted Alien Workshop brand?
I think it fucking should have been left where it was. I don’t fucking know. I don’t really have much to say about it really… I don’t know why (Rob) Dyrdek can’t let it go. Maybe it’s some ego thing that he feels like he needs to bring it back because he feels that maybe he killed it or it was in his hands when it died? Whatever… I don’t blame him necessarily. That thing was dying when it went to Burton. It was dying when we were making
Mindfield
– there were decisions that were made that caused the potential demise of the company back then.
So it had already changed so much way back then?
Yeah so it was like: Do I agree with everything Dyrdek did? No. But do I put all the blame on him? No.
Ok and can you tell us a little about the idea behind Hockey?
It is what it is. It’s John (Fitzgerald) and Donovan (Piscopo) and that’s kind of it right now. The idea behind it revolved around them. I mean that idea came up within months of us leaving the Workshop and doing FA. There were other ideas along the way on who would ride for it, but those two have always been the main ones. They are the main focus. But if you skate with those dudes they are so gnarly. And it’s kind of brutal, kind of like Hockey.
In a recent Tim O’Connor radio show with guest Brian Wenning, Wenning said that Guy (Mariano) had called him up and told him about how he was going to AA (Alcoholics Anonymous) meetings with you and how much it helped. Are you still involved with this and if so, how does going on skate trips affect that?
Yeah I do still do that. Skate trips don’t really put my sobriety at risk or anything like that – it’s so much deeper than that. I don’t know I’m older now and I don’t give a fuck… I’ll just go back to the hotel. But as far as AA goes, yeah I do that stuff; it’s helped me. It’s given me some direction and helped me deal with that kind of stuff.
So what’s next for you? Is there going to be an FA video? Will Strobeck film it?
I don’t know.
Is he too wrapped up in Supreme?
No not necessarily Bill would totally be down. If we were like to do something like that of course Bill would be a part of that. I mean Benny Magliano works for us now and he filmed for the Workshop and he’s the one that made the Hockey thing. He also does a lot of Hockey artwork too. So you know there’s that angle, but I don’t know if we are necessarily going to make an FA video right now.
What about you? Now that you’ve finished this big video part is there something you are looking forward to now? Maybe relax a bit or go into another project?
I’ll probably try and get somewhat busy with something, but I’m definitely not going to kind of ah… I mean maybe I like to think that I’m not going to do that, but to be in the headspace that I’ve been in for as long as I was with this thing it’s a little like… I don’t know if I believe in balance or whatever, but it (filming for
Propeller
) really didn’t make room for much of anything else. And that’s just the nature of my personality. I don’t really want to be there too much anymore because it’s just fucking too much. I want to do something though; maybe have a little more fun with it I guess. We’ll see… I don’t know.
I think that about does it. Thanks Anthony.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  November 1, 2019
Muckmouth
Muck Vallely ad, 2014.
11-year-old Alex Dyer started skating with his older brother Leighton in 1987 in Newbury, England. ‘And yeah honestly from there, I’m not being a dick, but apart from injuries I’ve never not skated for a week since then,’ said Alex. Who is Alex Dyer you might be asking yourself? Well perhaps you might know him from his
@365flip
Instagram account where at age 41 Alex did a 360 flip every day of the year in 2017. Still not ringing a bell? Well OK you might not know the name Alex Dyer but he and his brother are the guys that started Muckmouth: the New Zealand skate mag, turned web forum, turned
website
with one of the best
Instagram accounts
out.
How did two brothers from Newbury, England end up starting a skate magazine all the way in New Zealand? In an effort to answer this question and more, Arthur and myself arranged to meet Alex one hot July London afternoon for a chat and some lunch. After almost two decades of living in Auckland Alex has just moved back to the UK (the reasons for this we’ll get into later). We arrived at the restaurant first, picked a table outside and waited for Alex. Five minutes later Alex skates up in desert camo shorts, XL tee and Nike trainers on his 7.75 Muckmouth deck, Venture lows and 50mm wheels… ‘Same setup since 1996!’ After a brief discussion about his proclivity for skating in non-skate shoes (‘Jordan 4s are the absolute best’ in his opinion) the lunchtime beers arrive and we dive into the interview…
Will Harmon: Ok Alex why did you decide to move to New Zealand? How did this come about?
Alex Dyer: Ok so a quick bit first… So in 1995 my brother Leighton went on an around the world trip and visited my dad who had just moved to New Zealand as our parents had split up. So Leighton went around the world and when he came back he was like, ‘New Zealand is actually sick! It’s warm, there’s hot girls and the skating is pretty cool there.’ And I was like, ‘Oh really? Sweet’, but I didn’t really take it in, I just thought it would be cool to go see my dad one day. So I was going to America all the time at this point. Not trying to ‘make it’ or whatever, but…
WH: You just had to be in California at that time in skateboarding’s history…
Exactly, so I was going there all the time. You know three months here, three months there… You’d get a visa waiver for 90 days and I had good friends there, so it was a pretty good set-up. But one time I fucked it, I was an idiot… So I went to the travel agent and they said ‘oh yeah three months, blah blah blah, you can go from this date to this date.’ So I booked from the first of the month to the first of the month three months later, but there were two months with 31 days in that, so I went for 92 days.
WH: So that was two days over…
Yeah unbeknownst to me… I didn’t know I was being a dick. If I had wanted to overstay, I would have overstayed longer. And I was actually skint from two weeks before that so I would have loved to go home. I was living off Dunkin’ Donuts munchkins for a couple of weeks. So I leave the States and there’s no problem, but then the next time I go back they just go ‘oh were you here in 1996?’ And I was like ‘yeah man, Trilogy came out then…’ And then they were like ‘come with us…’ so I get locked in this cell in LAX for 17 hours and I go mental in there, but I knew I wasn’t going to get out at that point so they explained what happened and I explained from my end what happened. I said to them, ‘I’ll sign a piece of paper, and if I don’t leave in 90 days you can kill me. I will sign that.’ And they said ‘well we can’t accept that’ obviously, ha ha. But anyways they didn’t let me in, but after that I was going to visit New Zealand for a little second. The plan was three months in the States, then on to NZ. So they said: ‘Do you want to go back to England or on to New Zealand?’ So I was like, ‘Fuck it, I’m going to NZ.’ So I called my dad and told him I was coming and I’d land at the airport at 6am in a day’s time or whatever. And so I went there and weirdly this weird chain of events happened where five of my good friends from England all were in Auckland within a month. We all congregated there, it was mental.
WH: Wow!
Yeah, so the day I got there I said to my dad ‘drop me anywhere you’ve seen a skateboarder’, so he dropped me in Aotea Square, the main square of Auckland. And this was at seven in the morning like ‘what the fuck am I doing?’ He had to go to work; he didn’t give a shit. So I just skated there on my own and eventually I meet these two guys Paul Evans and Rupert Taylor. And because I could do a couple tricks or whatever they came and talked to me. You know that’s just the world of skateboarding. So I made friends with them and they were like ‘what are you doing tonight?’ And I was like ‘I don’t know, I only know you two. You’re my whole world right now!’ And so Rupert said he had a party to go to and I was like ‘aight sweet I’ll go.’ And I had pair of skate shoes on, the Axion Guy Mariano’s, the blue, white and yellows and I swapped them with Paul for these ridiculous basketball shoes, because I just didn’t feel comfortable in skate shoes.
WH: You couldn’t go to a party in skate shoes?
Nah! So I swapped the shoes and Rupert and I went to that party, got pissed and I woke up there, and I ended up staying at that house for six months.
Arthur Derrien: No way!
So I didn’t even speak to my dad for three weeks. You know since he picked me up from the airport.
WH: Was he stressed?
Yeah so I called him and I started talking to him and he’s like, ‘Where the fuck have you been?’ And I was like, ‘Aw I’ve just been staying at Amy’s…’
WH: You didn’t think to call your dad the next day after the party?
Nah I didn’t even think about it because I was like ‘this is brilliant!’
WH: So how did everyone react to you? An English guy just coming over to NZ…
I was a novelty. I was at this party, and I lost my board or focused it or something and I woke up in between two girls and I just thought: ‘this is amazing. This country’s brilliant!’ Obviously it’s not like that every day you’re there, but if that happens on your first day it does give you a pretty good impression. And there it was good because you could stay for six months instead of the 90 days in the US.
WH: So when was this?
This was in ’98.
WH: So how did Leighton get there too?
Well Leighton was on a trip already and we had planned this… I was going to go to California for three months and then meet him in NZ for a bit. So I think he sped up his trip or something… It’s so loose there: you could just pop over to Australia and get another six months when you came back… We would leave and come back and basically for a long time I went back and forth from England to New Zealand for eight years. Technically you could only stay in NZ for six months of a year, but it would always take me a little while to save back up again.
WH: So finally did you just get citizenship?
I made up some qualifications, got this lawyer and to make a long story short: I got a work permit then residency. I have New Zealand and British passports now. It took awhile and it was a nightmare… There was a period I couldn’t leave the country for a year. They had taken my passport to do it and I wasn’t allowed to work. So they (NZ government) forced me into crime. What other options do you have to make money?
WH: Busking?
Yeah obviously I was busking, ha ha. So it was like, ‘I’m not even a good drug dealer, but I just got no choice here.’
WH: And Leighton?
He went through the motions too with permits and jobs and then got residency. Basically he didn’t need a lawyer due to his actual skills/real job.
Leighton Dyer, Melon, 2003
WH: Ok so let’s cut to the chase: How/why did you guys start Muckmouth?
OK so a little micro backstory here… We were really obsessed with World Industries companies. After 1990 I only rode World, 101, Blind, whatever… It got to the point where we had a shop in Newbury where we grew up called Benz, our friend Ben’s dad owned it. And he was really close with New Deal, and I love Steve Douglas, he’s a good friend, but we just wanted World boards. So he (Ben’s dad) got some World boards in and he got the Randy Colvin naked woman board in and he got complaints. So he said ‘I’m never getting them in again!’ So we didn’t go to our local shop and we’d travel 45 minutes to another shop to get World boards.
So even though by 1998 World was long gone, as far as being cool goes…
WH: …you still wanted something like that.
Yeah and I was really into Big Brother and I was into writing so I wanted to do something. Leighton was working at an advertising agency in Auckland doing graphic design stuff and I told him I wanted to make a magazine like Big Brother and do that here, because it doesn’t exist. So I’d go to Leighton’s work, because there was a bar in there so we could nick booze on Saturdays, and I asked him if he knew how to put together a magazine. And he said he did, he didn’t know how to print it, but he could put it together. So I said, ‘OK I can write stuff and come up with ideas and you can put the pictures in and we can put it together right?’ He said, ‘technically yes,’ so we did it. The first issue I think was only 1000 copies. So that’s how Muckmouth started, as a magazine in 1999. I think maybe we had one advert in it from I don’t know who, just the skate shop I think. We did crime to fund it basically.
OK so a semi-backstory to that: when Leighton first came over he entered this mini-ramp contest. And there was this kid Matt Hall who was the local mini-ramp champ. Leighton beat him. And it turns out as well as being the local mini-ramp champ he was also a massive gangster. He wanted to kill Leighton at first, but then they became friends. We’re still friends with Matt to this day; he’s like the best, but the most ruthless, ridiculous person. He had the worst criminal record in New Zealand for anyone under 18 ever. So between him and all his friends they were always stealing stuff and doing whatever and we needed money. We weren’t doing proper crime, but we just turned into middlemen for their shitty old laptops and stuff. ‘Oh Leighton works in an advertising agency of course someone wants a shitty new MacBook or whatever…’ And they would be like ‘well we’ve got 18 of them.’ So we’d get 300 dollars just for passing it over. And stupidly… You know how Big Brother would change the format every issue?
Issue 7 cover, 2001
WH: Yeah.
And I wasn’t copying them, but they inspired me. So we changed the name every issue.
WH: I saw that on your website!
Yeah it was so dumb, but it was also cool ‘cause it was always A5 size. So we did that and after about issue four we started to get a few ads and we were making a bit of cash, no sorry we didn’t ever make any cash, but we didn’t have to steal as much.
(Everyone laughs)
But we always gave it away; you never had to pay for the magazine. We gave it to coffee shops, cool bars, skate shops…
AD: Way ahead of the game with that one.
I’m not gonna say it, but we invented Vice, ha ha. And honestly it was sick; it was pretty fucking popular. Kids would write in letters… So we ended up doing ten issues… It was quite a struggle you know.
AD: So was it just you and your brother?
At the start it was me, Leighton and Darren. Darren Howman was another one from Reading as well. He was another one of the five that came over back then.
WH: So what did the NZ skaters think about these three English guys coming over and starting a magazine?
There was varying feedback. I don’t really know, well I do… People liked us, but some were like, ‘What the fuck are these guys doing?’
WH: Well I’m sure you guys did shake things up. I mean your mag was no holds barred, say what the hell you want…
So I can’t really speak on what people thought, but people didn’t hate it. But then we had that same problem that a lot of people have where distributors would be like ‘oh we’d love to advertise, but we want you to tone it down.’ And I’m like ‘well the only reason people liked it, is because we toned it up! So no, I’m not going to do that.’ And I’ve never been that person you know. ‘Last issue you had a pair of tits in it!’ And I’m like ‘of course it did! We love tits!’ And we’d swear in there and do drugs reviews and booze reviews… It’s good; it’s funny.
WH: It’s a snapshot of that time in your life as well.
Absolutely. And also if you want to advertise in it, you obviously like what you’re seeing, you’re just scared that you don’t want to put your brand next to it. So we had that battle for a long time. We went for 2-3 years making the mag I think. And then by issue 10 it was like… It was a struggle. We got to ten and then the Internet started coming in.
Issue 9 Rob Selley spread
AD: It’s kinda good to end it on a high note as well…
Exactly.
WH: OK so what is behind the name?
OK so Ben, who had the skate shop Benz, he was two years younger than me. I was 11 and he was nine. But when he got a little bit older he got a porno mag and he brought it out and it brought the word ‘muck’ into the equation and it just meant spunk. ‘Ah you know I mucked all over her face’ or something and we just found it so funny. So we’d just run with it for ages. Long story short: when I was about 12, early doors in life, I had a wank in the bath and the spunk landed in my mouth. So we called it ‘muckmouth’.
(Everyone breaks out laughing)
I was like ‘oh my god, oh my god, this is terrible!’ So then we’d say it ‘muck mouth, muckmouth’ and it sort of made sense because the mag had a lot of swearing in it, like a mucky mouth. So I could explain to a granny or something like ‘it is just guys with a dirty mouth’, but the true story is the wank in the bath.
WH: Ha ha! OK I wanted to ask about some of the articles you had in the mag… There was one where it was a competition about you and your brother getting dates?
AD: The BA one…
WH. There’s a Stephen Merchant interview and one with the Lo-Lifes…
Those interviews were all real as well… Well the BA one wasn’t, ha ha.
WH: So you just called up Stephen Merchant?
We had a friend who worked as a producer on The Office and so we were obsessed with it so we did a little interview with him, but he wasn’t that interesting.
WH: And what about the Lo-Lifes?
So you know how we said we were friends with the gangsters? So Matt’s best friend Luke was living in New York at the time, and he’s got a better Polo collection than Rack Lo, and so he had made friends with them over there obviously – so he did the interview with those guys. We just had an outlet that not many others had, this was before the Internet was what it is now, so people would be like, ‘Can we put this in here?’ – ‘Fuck yeah of course you can! This is what I want.’ Obviously we turned down some shit, but we were in a world where people were doing shit so shit just came. We interviewed that porn star Kyla Cole…
AD: Did people see it in America and stuff?
At our peak we’d make about 8000 copies. We’d send some over to some places in America. We sent them to shops we knew and whatever, but I’m not really sure… Sometimes we’d get a letter from someone or an email, so people saw it. In New Zealand definitely it was big.
WH: And then after you ended the mag (around 2003 sometime) I heard you guys had a pretty popular web forum…
A friend of mine that was a real nerd had a drum and bass forum where they all talked about beats or whatever, so he was like ‘all these people are into your magazine, you should put this on the Internet!’ I was on some Super Hans shit: ‘ah I dunno, the Internet’s never gonna catch on…’ ha ha. But I was like ‘put it together if you want.’ So he put this forum together and it just fucking popped off… Mainly within New Zealand, but there were thousands and thousands of users, it was before Facebook and stuff so it was a place people would go every day. I think there are 100,000 posts on it still.
AD: Is it still going?
No, but it’s still there and you can still look at it. There was a skate element to it, but it was mainly just all types of people. There were girls… Lots of people got their first fuck on the forum. There was a graffiti thread on there, and I didn’t know anything about graffiti, but it was a world famous graffiti hangout. And then also parties started coming from it. So there were so many events that we did through it: we had two bikini contests, skate comps, we did ‘Santarchy’ – look that up. It was 130 people dressed as Santa running around Auckland getting pissed.
WH: Oh yeah they do it here: SantaCon.
Yeah we did it there and it was nuts… David Letterman even talked about it because ours really popped off. You can look it up… That’s the only thing, if you look up my name on Google it comes up as that (Santarchy). And it says I’m against the commercialisation of Christmas, but that’s not true. I fucking love Christmas! The forum was really big for a few years.
WH: And then the website came after?
I can’t remember the year, but forums were dying out and Facebook became a thing, so I said to Leighton: ‘How can we make it so we can do interviews with people and do that sort of shit?’ And everything happens through drinking or whatever, but I met this guy Squid, who was this cool pissed-up, drugged-up lad, but it turns out he was a fucking genius at designing shit and creating websites. So he kind of made our site the way it is now. So now I could interview someone and have a place for it to go as there was no more magazine or forum. So I started to do some interviews and articles or whatever and was mainly all old World skaters and nineties dudes, guys that I’m interested in. I’ve got more in the pipeline too… I’m actually interviewing
Chris Branagh
; remember him?
WH: Yeah! The youngest pro skater. That leads me into the ‘back in the spotlight’ interviews. A) How did you contact all these dudes? And B) Who was the hardest to track down?
Yeah so I wanted to talk to people that were famous at some point and then they weren’t anymore. And I thought they’d actually love it as they were in the spotlight, but now they’re not. So I just stalked them out; Facebook was good for that and also there was Instagram and other ways. So it got to like 118 people I think it was, with those same three questions each time. And since that was four years ago I think it’s time now to do more because some people will have fallen off within that time. But yeah those back in the spotlights went down really well.
WH: And then some of them turned into longer interviews as well right? Like
Jed Walters
,
Dan Peterka
?
Some of the people I did back in the spotlight interviews with I thought ‘fuck I could do a real interview…’, but I just wanted to keep that going for that period and it was easy because it was just: send them the three questions and get it back. And sometimes it’s funny when they say just ‘no’ and ‘yes’, like
Lavar
(McBride). He gave one-word answers to each. Josh Beagle, of Foundation just said ‘fuck off’. So before that I had done proper interviews with
Shiloh
(Greathouse) and
Kareem
(Campbell) talking about his pager line. But Jed Walters was fucking hard. There was nothing about him online. So Mackenzie Eisenhour did an article about Jed in about 2002, but just about how he existed. So I had this job working for a casino company and weirdly they were paying me through the nose to do literally nothing. So I had to just sit in front of a computer with fast Internet and look busy. So I decided to try and find this guy. I’m searching and searching and then I find something, because I knew he was from North Dakota or South Dakota or something… And then there’s one Jed Walters on a gardening forum. So there was a guy on there from South Dakota called Jed Walters and he was talking about being an alcoholic, blah blah blah… I thought ‘this is depressing’ but I looked at his picture and it was tiny, but I zoomed in and thought ‘it could be?’ So I joined the gardening forum…
WH: No way! Ha ha…
Yeah I joined it and I had to make three posts before I could private message someone so I had to make some posts like ‘Eh how big is your lawnmower?’ I dunno, and then I send him this message: ‘Are you Jed Walters that was on World Industries?’ And he was just like ‘uh, fuck… yes, why?’ I was like ‘Jesus… I got him!’
WH: That is incredible!
And then it took so long building it up. What is it called when paedos train little kids?
WH: Groom them…
Yeah, I had to really groom him.
(Everyone laughs)
Yeah but I got him in the end and he was real nervous like, ‘Why would anyone care about me?’ I told him his name gets brought up all the time, on Instagram. ‘I don’t know what Instagram is,’ he said. ‘Just look on the internet mate!’ Anyway so I got him and he wrote nice answers and it was a good interview. He was real happy and stoked on it and I reconnected him with a lot of his old homies.
WH: Well it was sick that you got Kareem, Shiloh and Daewon to say something about Jed…
And then a lot of them were like ‘ah you found him! What’s his number?’ So asked Jed if he minded that I gave out is number and he was fine with it. So now he’s back friends with them again.
AD: That’s sick… You helped the dude out.
Yeah he’s in South Dakota doing gardening or whatever but now he’s talking to Shiloh again. So I actually felt good about that.
WH: So was anyone else that hard to get a hold of?
Well Kareem wasn’t hard to track down, but like just getting a few things out of him that no one else had got like him talking about what was on his pager when he checked it during that line and the hundred bucks when he does the kicky fakie in New World Order. I said, ‘Did you get the $100?’ and he said, ‘Yes sir and I bought a bag of weed!’ It’s cool, it’s not going to change the world but I was psyched on it and I’m sure some other nerds liked it. That guy can skate man. His Instagram persona now though…
Issue 9
WH: I don’t like to follow some of my childhood heroes on Insta because it takes away the mystique.
I don’t follow anyone on my personal account that I don’t know right… So in my normal life when I’m scrolling though I’m like ‘everything’s fine’. And then on the @muckmouth account I do follow pros and that and I’m like ‘oh god this is fucking crazy!’ because it’s so horrible. They say never meet your heroes and it’s fucking true: they’re all fucked. You do meet the odd person that’s good…
And on that note, I did meet (Steve) Rocco, who is my genuine hero. We are in the very long midst of interviewing him. We’re text buddies, which is cool. I’m more psyched on that than anything. He came to Auckland weirdly where I was at the time, and so he texted me: ‘Are you in Auckland?’ And I thought ‘you’re in Auckland… What the fuck!’ So when he emailed me before he gave me his number and I saved it instantly. So I get this text and honestly… Imagine if a fit girl texts you for the first time, I was so nervous! ‘I’m not even gonna open it; what’s it gonna be?’ And so he was like, ‘Are you in Auckland? I’m at the Hilton. Do you wanna do something today?’ Yes! I dropped everything. I told my misses at the time ‘I’m going out. It’s this a 50-year-old man I’m going to meet.’ And she’s like, ‘Why do you care about this?’ I said: ‘I’ll explain later on.’ It was amazing… It was almost like I was on World in ’94; he took me to the casino and gave me $2000.
AD: No way!
Yeah and he had about eight grand he’s like ‘just bet on whatever you want.’
‘Of course I will’ I was thinking, but at the same time this is a month and half’s rent! Oh god, put that on black!
AD: Did you lose all of it?
All of it. I had to! I was steaming the whole time and I got up to four grand and he’d lost all of his, so I was like ‘here you go Steve, here’s two Gs!’
WH: Oh so you gave him his money back…
Yeah and then I lost mine and he lost his; it was all just sick. I was like ‘fuck it’, I’m not gonna be tight in front of this fellow. This is what I wanted to be in ‘94 and I’m just doing it now.
WH: So sick.
And the whole time I was just probing him like ‘tell me about the car in Video Days…’ He was so psyched on being in the casino.
WH: I guess he’s still loaded then.
He’s a millionaire; he’s so rich. So we saw him in LA, he lives in Malibu obviously and I asked him what he does. ‘I drop my daughter off at school, surf every day and then pick my daughter up from school.’ So I asked him who he hung out with… Of course his best mate is Kelly Slater, the best surfer in the world. And also he hangs out with Damon Way. They are like the three best mates.
WH: OK, I’m gonna change the convo up and ask about how on your guys’ Instagram you put up a trick and describe the trick name in great detail. And this creates all these arguments from the younger skaters… Why did you guys decide to this? What were some of the biggest arguments, etc.?
This is my favourite question so far! I didn’t decide to do this; I’ve never changed from when I learnt in ’87 right and so I’m stubborn and probably also a pedantic prick when it comes to this stuff. There’s one thing I know: I fucking know about skateboarding tricks and even if I can’t do them I know what they are. I could commentate any contest, apart from vert, because I’m a little sketchy on some of the handplants, but every other transition trick, I’ve got it covered, every street trick, whatever. My brother and I both know and of course we do, everyone does… But it turns out not everyone does. I actually have an article in the pipeline, but the reason I’ve held it off is because I felt a bit too preachy about it. It’s about frontside and backside, because you know how people are like: ‘Well if that’s a backside nollie flip and that’s a frontside halfcab flip, why do they look the same?’ Fuck me! Do I have to break down everything?!
WH: This is like
the whole argument about Austyn Gillette’s halfcab flip
on the LA High bank.
That’s the one that made me laugh the most, because to me there’s no question about that. And people are like ‘well he’s carving up…’ Ok well it’s a shit halfcab flip because he’s carving. If it’s a fakie flip, you’re going up fakie you do a fakie kickflip and you come down forwards. That’s just a fakie flip. And I hate being preachy…
AD: Well you do kinda enjoy it…
Yeah well I don’t wanna come across as an old… Well I am old, but I don’t wanna be that old man going ‘you kids don’t know!’ because I’m not that, but, at the same time ‘you kids don’t know.’
(Everyone laughs)
Leighton and me never talk about what we post right, because we both have known each other for so long. The only thing I’ve had to tell him ever is don’t respond to people. Because in my mind when you look at Thrasher or Transworld or whatever mag as a little kid, and you read it at home like: ‘fuck off that’s not a Madonna!’ The editor doesn’t hear me say it and so he doesn’t get to respond. If I put it out, I’m not going to respond, unless someone says something really nice like ‘aw fuck I really love this place, I wanna go there…’ I might respond to that.
WH: So the Gillette one you guys never responded?
Leighton would respond from his other account, I said ‘if you have to, but don’t respond from us.’ I’ll respond by doing another post kind of mocking those thousand people who disagreed. That one actually made me feel like I had a head injury. To the point like, ‘What is it you don’t understand about this?’
AD: What you’ve described from the whole experience of Muckmouth it seems like it’s always been completely independent, you guys do whatever you want, say whatever you want and on all these articles no one is stopping you… But then there’s the (Josh) Swindell interview that’s not on the website anymore. What happened there?
OK so we did that interview and it fucking popped off. I was very happy with that interview. I knew people would give a fuck, because I gave a fuck and I’ve never missed a beat, I’ve read all the skate media from ’87 on, well maybe the last five years it’s impossible, but I knew about Josh Swindell and his interviews in Big Brother, blah blah blah, and so I decided to stalk him out, same thing. And I found him and I knew he’d just gotten out (from jail) and I had to groom him as well. He’s a very nice, chilled man, but he didn’t want to tell his story to anyone, but shit snowballs, as you know… If you’ve got a Kareem interview, a Shiloh interview and shit like that people are like: ‘oh, they’re a thing’. Once you have those couple interviews people start to trust you a bit more. So after a bit of back and forth I get it going and I tell him: ‘Look, I’m gonna prepare you, I’ll ask you about being on Think and skating and stuff, but the main thing I’m gonna ask you about is killing someone, because that’s a big fucking deal.’ And he was well sound and when I got it, I remember the morning when I woke up and got the reply, because that one I sent him the question and he took his time over a week or something and just responded. So when it came in I was like ‘fucking hell!’ and then he sent footage of himself skating again and this and that. OK then I put it out, it pops off and then he’s messaging me about it… He said I had to change one thing and I did, publicly. Because he said something about Danny Way having a fight with someone, and he said ‘Danny pissed his pants and then we had to beat the guy up.’ And then there were all these comments like ‘ah Danny Way pissed himself ohhh!’ And then he messaged me and clarified that he didn’t mean ‘pissed his pants’, but he was scared. So I changed it. And then there was a three page thing on Slap (forum) about ‘ah I can’t believe you… Your journalistic integrity!’ No! My journalistic integrity is safe because I did change it, because he didn’t actually piss himself…
WH: Yeah of course.
So that all happened and it was up for about three years and everyone had seen it and that, then
we did a shoe with DC
. And that shoe had come out already (a Muckmouth collaboration with the Josh Kalis shoe) and one morning I woke up, I had just lost my job at the casino, and I get a phone call from some 001 number. And it was someone big at DC, and he was nice, but he said, ‘Danny’s son has just read the interview and he’s really sad about it, blah blah blah…’ And I said: ‘What do you want me to do?’ Then he said, ‘We’d prefer if you didn’t have it up.’ The interview doesn’t implicate him (Danny Way) in anything it just says Danny hadn’t been very nice to him afterwards – that’s just two friends having beef, whatever. So I said, ‘Leave it with me, but I’m not going to say anything right now.’ So I had dramas with my job (losing it) at the time and I called ten people that I trusted the most and just said: ‘What would you do in this situation?’ And the shoe we did had just come out and don’t get me wrong I’m not a sell-out in any way, I’ll just tell people to fuck off. But it had already been up for three years and nine out of the ten people said to me take the path of least resistance, because you might do something else with them and there’s so many people on there…
WH: Everyone’s read it anyways and screenshots can very easily still be
found
on the Internet.
So my first reaction was ‘no, I’m not taking it down. No way!’ But after talking to all those ten friends, four of whom didn’t skate, I reluctantly put it on private. So that’s where it is, but I still hate myself for it. It niggles me.
WH: Tough decision.
I’m friends with Josh Kalis now; I don’t want to fuck these people off. I don’t want to fuck the company up.
AD: And you don’t know what the future will bring and you don’t want to burn bridges…
Yeah but at the same time… I don’t want to burn bridges, but I do want to tell the truth. I want to say what the fuck I want.
AD: Well you guys are probably the best example of the free press in skateboarding.
Well like I said that’s the one time we had to pull something and I’m still not happy about it. I just want to reiterate that it killed me.
Peppa the pig ad, 2015
AD: Obviously you don’t really have advertisers, but do you have any other brands that message you saying ‘what the fuck are you saying here?’
WH: Like that line about Tom Penny on your website: ‘Tom was expelled from school after stealing some canoes from Oxford University, as he went on to become the greatest skater in the world and fantastically wealthy (despite never really filming a proper part) this wasn’t much of a punishment. Years later however, he was suitably punished by the universe by becoming sponsored by Supra and is now forced to wear canoes on his feet.’
(Everyone laughs)
AD: So basically do you ever get emails or blowback from stuff like that?
Um, no not really.
AD: So this model can work.
It definitely can work. But like I said we never made money from Muckmouth, and don’t get me wrong, I’d love to do what I do anyway and make some money, but I’ve always never given a fuck about what people are gonna think about what I write or do. Ever since when we started in ’99 I’ve never ever thought ‘oh I better not write this because of so and so’ whatever, which most people probably have that in their mind. When I do my actual job, writing adverts and that for clients, if I write about baked beans I can’t just go ‘fucking beans are delicious. Put them on toast it’s brilliant’ you know? So that’s what makes it (Muckmouth) fun for me to do.
AD: That’s what makes it so valuable for our culture.
Yeah.
WH: Well it elevates it from message boards and just social media comments, it’s like these guys are saying it and they’re big, they have a big following and people know you…
AD: …they’re respected. They did the Swindell interview and interviewed Kareem you know? They can call out what they want.
Thanks.
AD: You guys aren’t making money, but also your ass isn’t on the line. We need more Muckmouths.
Yeah that’s exactly right if you don’t have that and you’re not doing that then skateboarding as a whole is covering up racists and homophobes and shit.
AD: That leads me to something else: At what point do you draw the line? At what point do you stop being accountable for stuff you did/said decades ago? Like some of the stuff in your printed magazine I’m sure could be seen as misogynistic.
Of course it is; it’s not something I would do now.
AD: So should you be crucified for that thing you did when you were younger? I guess the thing with shaming on the Internet is that it never stops.
Yeah so my take on that is yeah, some of the things we said in the early Muckmouth mags we were ruthless and we weren’t thinking, but also there was no malice in anything I ever said. I never ever, since I’ve been born, been racist or anything, because my mum is a cool bitch. I can call my mum a bitch, because that’s how cool she is, she would get that. She brought us up to be cool as fuck. I’ve said some awful things, but my take on it is if you say things in jest and you obviously have no malice in what you’re saying and it’s a joke, then it’s not a big thing. I don’t have a malicious bone in my body; well I do towards people who skate with bad style, ha ha… But I don’t give a fuck who you fuck or who you turn into – none of that means anything. Having a laugh is the most important thing to me. If shit’s funny and you can entertain people… And not everything I do entertains people, it doesn’t – sometimes shit gets boring or whatever…
Issue 9
WH: Well kids get pretty angry when you call a trick the right name!
That entertains me, but fucking hell! Kids get really wound up about that.
WH: Ok so last question: Why did you decide to move back to the UK?
So it was three-prong attack. I had this weird chain of events where I broke up with my missus, lost my job and… wait, the bad thing happened in the middle. OK, so I woke up one morning, and I lived right in Auckland City, pretty much as central as you can get, and I live right off the street so you could always hear people doing shit outside. So I was having a shower one morning and I heard this shit going on outside, so I popped my head out, and even though I couldn’t see anything, it was so loud. And I don’t know why I looked out, but as I did I saw a bloke standing there in my bedroom just looking at me. And I’m like ‘alright, alright…’ I’m obviously naked as I’m in the shower. And I’m like, ‘Who the fuck are you?’ and he put his hand on my shoulder and said, ‘calm down’.
WH: ‘Don’t tell me to calm down!’
That’s what I’d usually think in a normal situation, but when you’re naked on a Monday morning… I’m like ‘you’ve won this!’ He’d taken all the power from me; I didn’t know what to do. ‘You’re just there, some crazy dude, and I’m naked and you’ve just said “calm down” to me’. If I was robbing a house, I’d be scared if someone caught me, but not this guy. And I went to grab the towel, but it was too far back and I didn’t want to turn my back on this cunt. And he’s just like, ‘Where the fuck is Callum?’ And I’m like ‘I don’t know Callum. Who the fuck is Callum? I’m Alex, there’s my bed.There’s one bed here, is Callum gay?’
And he was like ‘no!’
‘Well then he doesn’t sleep in the bed with me does he? I’m not gay, Callum’s not gay, where the fuck does Callum sleep?’
He’s like ‘I dunno. Callum lives here.’
‘He doesn’t! I live here on my own I’m a single dude.’
And he’s just like, ‘Where’s Callum?’
And I’m like ‘stop saying “Where’s Callum” because I don’t know. It’s 7am on a Monday morning. I don’t know!’ So my bedroom is downstairs and my lounge is upstairs on ground level, so I say ‘let’s go upstairs, we’ll talk about it’ and I’m still naked and I don’t know why I do this, but when we are walking up the stairs I push him on his back just to start to speed him up. And he turns around and says, ‘Don’t fucking touch me!’
WH: You pushed him whilst you were naked!?
I know, I know, but I just wanted him out and to speed things up. So I say to him ‘I don’t know what you’re saying… It’s clear I don’t know Callum.’ I could tell he was fucking ruthless, so I’m already pretty shook, plus you know, I’m naked, and he says, ‘I’m just trying to find Callum. He’s been doing some shit in the area… selling.’ And I’m like, ‘Well as you know, I don’t know Callum’. I’m actually weirdly calm at this point, I’d had a big weekend with lots of booze, there’s a gangster in my house and I’m naked. I mean I’m pretty confident if there’s a fight in a pub, but this is the weakest I’ve ever been.
WH: I can imagine.
And so I was like, ‘You have to leave, I have to get ready for work.’
‘Just tell me where Callum is!’
‘I fucking don’t know who Callum is!’ and then we are walking towards the door and he goes ‘oh, do you skate?’ because I got all these old nineties boards on my wall – Menace boards and shit. And I was like ‘yes’, but what’s that got to do with the price of beef?
‘Ah yeah pretty cool boards you got there…’
So I asked him, ‘How the fuck did you get in anyway?’
‘Oh the door was open.’ Bollocks. And as he was walking out he goes ‘ah I did give it a helping hand’: he had a crowbar. So he leaves and whatever adrenaline I had just went out of me. So I went to work, and I came back at lunchtime and everything was fine. I went back after work and the cunt had been back, because I’d called the landlord like ‘yo, fix the door!’ but he hadn’t been there so the cunt had been back and robbed my entire house. He took all the boards, all this Muckmouth shit, these unreleased DC Muckmouth jackets that didn’t even exist yet, so there’s some cunts wearing those, then laptops, phones, everything… And I’m not being a pussy but I just didn’t feel safe in that house anymore. So I left the house that day and went to my brother’s house. I came back the next morning with one of my gangster friends that I mentioned before, because I thought he might still be there and I realised he’d taken a shower…
WH: How did you know that?
So I had gone to work, but when I came home my towel was soaking wet on the ground, and the shower was still running. Well whatever, he did something and left the shower on. The only thing he couldn’t get was my TV. I had a 65 inch TV: too big to nick. Fuck him. He took everything else though; it cost me about 20,000 dollars this whole thing. So I just took my TV, went to my brother’s house and then I lost my job two days afterwards.
AD: Fucking hell…
Missus, home invasion, job… So I was like ‘Fuck it. I’m gonna go back to England for a bit.’
WH: So this was just last year?
Yeah first week of August last year.
WH: So it was all some sort of mistaken identity?
Oh yeah sorry, so there’s a little bit more to the story. there was this bloke who lived directly above me. I knew him a bit because his shit washing machine leaked into my house a few times, but anyway, I go away on holiday and I get a message from my friend who knew him saying that he’s just been put in the boot and taken off into the forest.
‘What?!’ And he’s like a 48-year-old man and they thought he was Callum. So he gets taken off into the woods, bashed around a bit, but then he gets taken home because they realised he’s not Callum. I think he showed them ID or whatever, then he moved out of the apartment block because he’s scared as well. Then when I get back to New Zealand, I’m looking for a new place and I realise that my place, the one above and the one next door to that were all empty. And I’m like, ‘What the fuck?’ Then I find out from another gangster that this other apartment – next door to the one above mine – is where Callum actually lived. What a fucking mix up! He made an error in the paperwork big time. So he just went through the whole building until he found him and now nobody knows where Callum is. He’s dead.
WH: Fuck…
So they broke into my house, took the other bloke to the woods…
WH: Jeez… So how does it feel to be back in England after all these years?
It’s been sick and to be fair I was kind of missing it anyways. I had been back for holidays but only for a week or two, but I haven’t lived here for a long time. I was missing the pubs and I felt like I needed to top up my accent, ha ha.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  February 28, 2022
Low Flying Birds – Fool’s Gold
Words and photography by Joel Peck.
‘Damn, looking back at this, we really are skating the worst of the worst spots possible.’
I received this message shortly after having shared with Daniel everything we’d shot, so far, for the article you have before you now. After an initial lol, a slight feeling of concern came over me. Were they really that bad? I had to look for myself…
Lo and behold, there was certainly some truth to it. Subjectively speaking of course, the majority of the spots were just, kind of, shit… But let’s be specific here. There are shit spots and there are shitty spots. I would say that in this instance we are talking about the latter. A shit spot is a shit spot — boring, uninspiring, not worth the effort. Whereas, the way I see it, a shitty spot may well be inspiring, fun and fulfilling to skate, it’s just… fool’s gold. Perhaps it’s a natural hip with great transition but paved with craggy cobblestones, or a concrete ditch that literally needs to be unearthed to be even marginally skateable. In other words, spots that really don’t make it easy for you, but spots nevertheless.
Daniel Pannemann, kickflip, Paterno.
Let’s back up a bit. How did we end up here, supposedly skating the worst of the worst spots? It was May 2020 and with basically the whole of Europe in lockdown, Free had come up with their conceptual, lockdown issue. The entirety of the magazine was to be shot in the space of a week, with several photographers taking it upon themselves to realise a project within this tight timeframe. Reluctantly, I took this opportunity to work on a project that I’d had in the back of my mind for a long time: exploring Berlin’s Hinterh fe, or backyards. Those private spaces hidden behind and between offices and apartment blocks, comprising a good half of the city but remaining, to most, completely unknown.
To clarify, when I say I took this on reluctantly, it’s because I would’ve never even considered trying to knock this project out in the space of a week. Left to my own devices I would have taken a comfortable year or three to work on it, but then again I had been left to my own devices and wasn’t anywhere near even initiating the project — I’m good at putting things off, procrastinating and well, yeah… With no other ideas in mind, I took the plunge and committed to the concept, immediately followed by an air of dread: How was I going to organise this? What if nobody ends up wanting to join me on my quest? Will we just get kicked out of every single Hof before even putting our boards down?! (Entirely likely).
Tjark Thielker, beanplant, Magdeburg.
To be fair, logistically speaking, it was a nightmare to organise this. These spots require as few people as possible — ideally only one person skating — since they’re all such huge busts. Trying to figure out specific days for specific people and spots, many of which were nothing more than mere potentiality at the time, still to be discovered, was quite a mind-melting task… Enter Daniel Pannemann. When I messaged Daniel outlining the project and asking if he’d be up for getting involved, his response was along the lines of, ‘I pretty much go out looking for these spots every other day. I’ve got some ideas, should we meet on Tuesday at 6pm?’ This was exactly the kind of ‘straight to the point’ organisation I needed for the wishy-washy bed I’d made myself. As it happens, Daniel and Nils were working on finishing up the original Low Flying Birds video at the time and we were able to combine one of their final filming missions with my photo project. Not only did this help to bring organisation, amazing spots and some choice skating to the week of shooting, it also spurred our further working together on what you have right here before you.
And so it was that, several months later, I would find myself in Magdeburg, on a roof, watching Nils, Daniel & Tjark digging swampy grass out of an industrial ditch, using nothing but metal sheets and a broom- end. A shitty spot, if you will… Just why we’d ended up here, of all places, I can’t really say. But if you don’t know Magdeburg, let’s just say that it’s not top of the list of places to visit. And yet, curiously, here we were for the second time in a month, busying ourselves in the least likely of places.
Nils Brauer, Ollie, Lichtenberg.
Well good, why not here? This was, after all, the theme of the project, the natural course it seemed to have taken. Whereas my previous Hinterhof project had thrown me into a Hitchcock, Rear Window type reality — this one was very quickly becoming, in my imagination at least, some sort of apocalyptic, Mad Max equivalent. Rather than spending our days immersed in the private, enclosed places that people call their home, we now seemed to be putting ourselves in the most barren, desolate of places. Out on these industrial fringes, gas stations have become our go-to hangout spot, initially out of necessity but now more as ritual. Container gaps top of the spot-hit list…
Nils Brauer, ollie to backside lipslide, Adlershof.
Writing this now, it strikes me that it’s not quite so simple to find a definite division between my imagined sci-fi interpretation of our excursions and their actual reality. I’m not implying that we are, in fact, some gang of skateboard bandits, taking our chances on the dusty highways, driving from junkyard to junkyard, constantly anticipating the next ambush. No, not just yet, but there is some kind of subconscious crossover between imagination and fact. Was it through choice, for example, that we’ve ended up putting ourselves in these outermost, desolate places, or was it rather through more subtle influences? Perhaps the current societal and world situation has played more of a part in this than we, or I at least, initially realised.
Nils Brauer, wallride, Magdeburg.
To what extent do the characters in a dystopian story, or the individuals in a dystopian reality, actually acknowledge the full scope of what’s happening around them at the time? Of just how bad things have gotten? Could it be that these implications only become clear with hindsight? When the LFB crew and I first met up, we were all, as a society, still adjusting to this new but supposedly temporary life of restrictions and lockdowns. There was of course an air of uncertainty and, in many cases, fear, but I also remember a large sense of novelty. The feeling that this will all be over before it has a chance to get really tedious.
Valeri Rosomako, backside nosepick, Friedrichshain.
Yet, as I write this a year and a half later, still no end seems to be in sight. We’re learning collectively that any promise of a return to normality is nothing but hot air — just another false spark of hope, soon to be shat all over by a new variant or a spike in contractions. Inevitably, this will be closely followed by the re-re-introduction of restrictions — another lockdown. In exactly what context is this current global situation not dystopian?
Tjark Thielker, crook bonk, Wedding.
One thing I can say for sure though — in this climate of precariousness, frustration and tragedy — this project, these missions, have acted as a serious remedy to all the chaos, if only fleetingly. However it may be that we’ve continually found ourselves out in the middle of nowhere, seeking out these shitty spots, it’s precisely this setting that has allowed us a sense of freedom. Freedom to move, to explore and to retain that sense of intrigue and creativity that’s becoming more and more stifled under constant restriction.
Daniel Pannemann, frontside 180 kickflip, Pankow.
I believe that no matter how dire a situation may seem to be, there’s always something positive to be found in it. Let’s not forget that negative, by definition, implies positive — the two concepts rely on one another in order to exist — and I see this pandemic as a much needed wake up call for change. Many of us are questioning our values and what’s really, essentially important to us, possibly for the first time. I’ll spare you from going too deep into my personal thoughts here, but let’s just say that I find the very foundation of our societal and cultural values — this emphasis on individual success, on making it, no matter the cost — to be a fundamental flaw. Just as positive implies negative, so too, success implies failure. The more we strive for individual success, the more we fail as a whole. Clearly, we are living the implications of this now.
Malte Spitz, backside kickflip, Schöneberg.
Alright, seems I got a bit carried away, time to bring this back to the matter at hand: skateboarding, fool’s gold… With the deadline for this project just a few days away, we’ve found ourselves out in the sticks, somewhere outside of Catania. As it stands, we’re yet to find anything skateable here in the Sicilian boondocks. Maybe it’s time we cut the shit and just hit the plaza, eh?
Daniel Pannemann, 360 fip then ollie in, Spandau.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  October 13, 2017
Vans Stroopwaffle-tour – Vans Nordic x Vans Holland
Video: Marc Bolhuis
Text: Nikolai Alin
Photos: Justus Hirvi
One of the best parts in skateboarding is, as everyone knows, the feeling that you have friends worldwide just because you’re a skater. No matter where you go, basically, if you have a board and willingness to shred, there’s always someone who shares that passion and is down for a session. That is simply amazing and has something to do with the Stroopwaffle-tour that happened early this summer in the Netherlands by Vans teams from Nordic (Finland, Sweden & Denmark) and the Netherlands.
Bert Roeterdink, fs nosebluntslide, Deventer.
When planning a skate tour, the first thing you need to take in consideration is the weather of the destination: is it going to rain, how’s the weather? Because Scandinavia is so up north, there aren’t too many warm months to skate and even when it’s warm, from June to August, it can be rainy as hell. So instead of doing a spring tour to one of the countries we live in, we asked our good friends from Vans Holland if we can come for a quick skate-related visit. After few Skype-talks with Sebastiaan Vijverberg, a true skate rat and the team manager of Vans Netherlands, we had a plan for a one week trip.
Aron Buzas, wallie in to the bank, Rotterdam.
Vans Nordic means myself and Petrus Marttila from Finland, Aron Buzas and Daniel Wårdh from Sweden and Björn Lillesöe from Copenhagen, Denmark. Petrus had rolled his ankle real bad in the Canarias just before the trip so he couldn’t join us and stayed home. We also got Helsinki native, Justus Hirvi, to shoot the photos and document the trip. Our hosts were the local Vans team, which means that was Sebastiaan, Nick Bax, Bert Roeterdink, Lex Van Der Does and filmer Marc Bolhuis also in the van with us.
Nikolai, fs nosegrind, Deventer.
There are so many things in the Netherlands that amaze me. First of all comes the tiny size of the country and within that, short distances between big cities. In the middle of the tour, we realised that the Vans Shop Riot-contest was happening in Deventer, 150 kilometres from the Hague. We thought it would be cool to check that out and say hi to everyone so we decided to drive there. I was driving and having a great chat with Marc who was sitting right next to me. Sebastiaan the tour guide was on shotgun but shortly after we left the Hague behind he fell asleep. After some time, we realised that all the freeway signs were in German. We woke Sebastiaan up and asked the reason for the German signs. Seb woke up and simply exclaimed that we had driven too far and that we’re in Germany now. The crazy and amazing thing in the Netherlands is just this: the country is so small that you can drive to another country by accident and everything is super close. For comparison, if you want to drive from Helsinki to Oulu, one of the biggest cities in Finland, you gotta be in the car for at least seven hours. If you drive seven hours from the Hague, you can reach cities like Stuttgart, Paris, Bruxelles and Düsseldorf, just to name a few. Skate travellers paradise, uh?
Sebastiaan Vijverberg, fs shuvit, Deventer.
Two big notes from the country are the huge amount of sick-ass skate spots and the friendly, hospitable attitude of people living there. One week was completely too little time to check the country, even though we had a good glimpse of cities like the Hague, Rotterdam (damn this city!) and Amsterdam. It would be great to stay at least two weeks in every one of these cities to see everything, search for spots and just get familiar with the place. The locals were just awesome. Sebastiaan and Remco (Stolze) took ten stinky skate rats to their house and made everything super easy for the visitors, hands down the best hosts I’ve had in my life. All the locals, including the Vans riders of course were super friendly and the stoke levels, as well as the skaters, stayed high during the whole tour.
Bjørn Lillesøe, fs stalefish, Deventer.
I think the edit is going to give you the sight from what happened in the tour skate-wise, so without further ado, dank u wel everyone and keep eating those stroopwaffles!
Check the gallery below for more photos of the crew!
View Gallery | 20 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 22, 2016
Vans 50th Interviews: Jeff Grosso
Jeff Grosso, 2016. Ph. Maksim Kalanep
If you don’t know who Jeff Grosso is well then I feel sorry for you. ‘Do your fucking homework!’ I would imagine Jeff would say… Grosso is a man that shouldn’t need any introduction and he was in
London last week
for
Vans’
50th anniversary. That’s right,
Vans is 50 years old
! So I sat down with Jeff to talk about his history with the brand, his favourite era in skateboarding, calling people out and other interesting tales from this certified legend.
Interview by Will Harmon
Vans is 50, what does that mean to you?
It makes me feel old really. I got my first pair of Vans tennis shoes when I was four years old. I’m 47, so I’ve been wearing Vans for 43 years. I mean I’ve worn other shoes, I’m not some Neo-Nazi that says: ‘I only wear Vans!’ I’ve had Converse on my feet; I’ve had Nike’s on my feet. I’ve even had Duffs on my feet… Remember
Duffs
?
Yeah totally!
I had a sweet-ass pair of
Markovich’s
. But Vans is family… I guess that would be the easy answer. I got on the team at 15 years old; it was one of my first sponsors… I rode for Variflex, so then I got on Vans. Except for about a year that I went to go ride for
NSS
, because Hosoi got out of prison and they gave him a shoe and I was all jealous: ‘cause I’m a bitch! So I quit and rode for NSS because they gave me a
shoe
. So I pretty much sold out my morals for 18 grand, so like I said, I’m a bitch! Other than that I’ve been wearing Vans since I was 15.
So what is your favourite era of skateboarding? And why…
My favourite era, I’m gonna go late seventies early eighties – because that’s my childhood. That’s when it was magic. I mean it’s magic today, but it’s really fucking magic when you’re eleven and ten years old. I was so… I hate words like ‘inspiration; I hate it. I hate new age bullshit… ‘I went to this art show and I was so inspired!’ Fuck you! Die! But I was moved, I was touched; I was inspired ugh, by
Brad Bowman
with four different coloured wheels. I wanted four different coloured wheels! And Stevie Caballero skating
Marina
in the green Vans high-tops with the brown accent on them, fuck I wanted to be Steve Caballero with camouflage shorts and green Vans on. That’s what I was initially attracted to, the aesthetic of it. Because I was looking in magazines, and then my mom brought home my first skateboard. I learned to stand up on it and then I went to my first skatepark – and then I was hooked. I remember thinking too that this is what I’m gonna do for the rest of my life. And I’ve tried to kill myself, literally, and I’m still here doing this for the rest of my life.
Since you’ve been skateboarding through a lot of eras, what has been the most surprising aspect of how skateboarding has evolved over the years since you started?
Most surprising? I think the trick explosion of the late seventies, early eighties – the progression at that time. Skateboarding was changing every six months; it was insane. It went from a whole group of pros that were gone overnight to a whole new group of pros. Names like Steve Olson, Duane Peters, Eddie Elguera, Dave Andrecht, Brad Bowman, so on and so forth right… All those pros, boom, it’s like they’re gone overnight and they’re replaced by Neil Blender, Steve Caballero, Tony Hawk and Lance Mountain. Every six months, it went from very surfy to very trick oriented, high airs, pool skating, and then pools to ramp… That era was real exciting and progression was snapping off. But then it got a little stagnant there in the late eighties, just back and forth on the swing set… ‘Another vert ramp fucking contest in another fucking arena!’ It started to become elitist and lame. And then by the time the nineties came, the street movement began. The advent of street skating as the dominant force in skateboarding… That kind of took me by surprise.
Yeah okay.
And all our sponsors were pushing us to street-skate… I mean all of us street-skated; it’s what you did in between the ramp or the park, the pool or whatever. I just didn’t see it coming. I didn’t adjust to it like some people did or tried to do.
Yeah I remember that, that’s when I first started skating. I remember seeing that transition. And I remember seeing an ad with Gator (Mark Rogowski) boardsliding a tiny handrail and thinking: ‘this is fucking weird.’
Yeah most people weren’t allowed to do it, like all of us that had been around so long. But somebody like Steve Berra, you know The Berrics ‘oh the guy is so wonderful’, no the guy’s a fucking kook! That guy was a vert nerd. He was a vert nerd from Nebraska and he adjusted and switched. Danny Way was a vert nerd, but he was so fucking good he was like ‘ Oh you guys are going to street-skate now? Alright, I’ll go out and do that too.’ And if you watch any of Danny’s street skating you see it’s insane. And it’s weird too because a lot of the street skaters at that time Gonz, Ron Chatman, Mike V, they’re all known as street skaters, but all they wanted to do was be vert skaters. They were at the vert ramp with us all the time. The nineties was kind of a left hook out of nowhere that staggered most of us. It’s rough being 19 or 20 years old and being told you’re the king of the world and then having the rug being pulled out from under you the next day. And then: ‘oh not only do we not want to pay you or sponsor you anymore, but you suck! Go away, because all these guys are the cool ones now.’ Because that’s how fickle skateboarding is. It’s run by 14 and 15 year old minds.
It’s true.
I mean how do you stay relevant and cool in a 15 year old’s head?
Tough one. You’re known to be very outspoken, and I think that’s a good thing. If it’s lame, you call people out. Have you had many repercussions due to this?
Most people just shrug it off. ‘Oh Grosso, there he goes again!’ I don’t man, fuck, I’m not much of a filter guy. It would behoove me to be better filtered, and maybe keep my fucking mouth shut sometimes… There’s a lot of hypocrisy in the world and a lot of stupidity. You know some things I say… You know everyone agrees with me, they just don’t wanna say it. I mean it’s like I said when we started, I hate this new age ‘I’m so grateful to be here. Isn’t it great that we’re all here!’ So if we keep saying that enough I guess the theory is the universe will make it true? But is it really true? Are we really grateful? Is it really great? I’m being very existential or esoteric or whatever the word is right now, but you know I try to tell my truth. It’s my truth; it’s the way I feel. And everybody knows I’m a hypocrite; everybody knows I’m a contradiction, everybody knows, because I’ve tried to be honest. I try to be a fucking human being. Because that’s what it means to be a human being: to contradict yourself and be a hypocrite, but also to learn from your hypocrisy and try to be a better human. I’ve made a lot of mistakes in my life; I’ve burned a lot of bridges and I’ve hurt a lot of people. I’ve hurt myself; I’ve wasted so much time doing dumb shit… And you know every day I wake up and try to be a little bit better version of myself. But I still cling to the idea that I should try and be honest about things. And yeah it gets me in trouble sometimes; people don’t like to hear it. Back in the day Dave Hackett got real mad at me… I’ve had a war with Tony Alva in the past. Tony Alva has gone in print magazines and said, ‘Fuck Grosso and his ilk!’ Because there I was as a young professional skateboarder going ‘fuck T.A. and the old guard, dig the new breed baby! We’re here; it’s our time. We are gonna make our mark.’ Just like Mike Carroll and James Kelch and all the guys at EMB came along and knocked Hosoi and Gator and me and Hawk and everybody else off of their high-horses at the time… ‘Fuck that shit! Dig the new breed baby! It’s about 38mm wheels, brick surface ground and backside tailslides on fucking ledges.’
Congratulations on saving Southbank by the way!
Yeah it’s incredible! Have you been to London or the UK before? What have been your experiences?
I came here for a demo… Dave Allen could probably tell you better. Uh ’87 or ’88 something like that, we did a demo and skated Latimer Road ramp. That was one of the best ramps I ever rode, great ramp, but sketchy gypsies. Somebody tried to push me off the bridge into the Thames River one night… Skated some badass demo in some Boys Club or some shit. I remember we did a demo for Converse; Converse brought us over so we had to wear them. We got really drunk on snakebites… That was fun. And then that was my first time in Great Britain properly and then we came back on a Black Label tour in the nineties and lost all our money, got all fucked up on ecstasy, and slept in the bushes in front of churches. And then we all went down to
Southsea
. There was a contest down there and we fucked around there. So that was the nineties, and then I came here on the Indy tour in ’08. We went to Bath and skated that metal vert ramp and a drainage thing in Bath too. Bath is beautiful. I fucking love England; England’s badass!
Jeff Grosso, London, 2016. Ph. Maksim Kalanep
Do you see any difference in skateboarding in Europe than the way it is in the States?
I don’t travel enough to tell you. You’d have to ask somebody like Chris Pfanner or somebody that travels a lot would be better equipped to answer that question. But me guessing, I’d say no, there’s no difference because everything is video, app-driven nonsense these days. It’s Hellaclips, Instagram and Snapchat and everything’s video-oriented. So it doesn’t take any imagination anymore because all you do is hit ‘play’ and actually physically watch what the guy did and then mimic it. And then maybe if you’re really good you can expound on that guy’s idea, which he’s you know expounding off of someone else’s idea and so on and so forth. That’s more of a math equation than it is inspiration. Whoa that actually rhymes! (Laughs) It’s like a Modest Mouse song or something.
Ok so for the last thing I’m going to say a few names… Can you say the first thing that pops into your head when I say them – either one word or one sentence?
Eric Nash
Better than me.
Allen Losi
Fucking Godhead.
Neil Blender
Pretty neato. I saw Neil the other day… He was way too stoned to even hang out. But he was showing me all these little slalom boards he’s been making. He’s like; ‘It’s so great ‘cause there’s no nose or tail!’ He was really impressed he had no nose and tail on his skateboards.
Bod Boyle
Fuck Bod Boyle! ‘England’s answer to Hawk.’
Mark Rogowski
Ah fucking Gator man…
Tony Hawk
Tony Hawk’s badass!
Rob Roskopp
The barn! (Laughs) ‘The flying Ohioan’ I think was his moniker at one point.
Tony Alva
T.A. is badass.
Steve Olson
Steve Olson is the greatest human being on Earth; know this.
Jeff Phillips
Dead.
Mike Frazier
Mike Frazier is fucking awesome. Frazier is fucking ripping and he tells the greatest stories on Instagram. And if you bet him: ‘Ah I bet you can’t ride your bike 7000 miles in one day!’ He’ll get up at 3am and he’ll do it. He’ll ride his bike across Florida and lose 25 lbs. in the process. He’s gnarly.
Grant Taylor
The best. The very best of the best. There is no better.
Dennis Busenitz
Fast. I think he wears magic underwear.
Nyjah Huston
He should be nicer to his neighbours. If you wanna have a fucking all night rave 24-7 at your house, then fucking move out into the country. Why torture the people that paid 1.2 million to live in their homes? Quit being a fucking dick you entitled little bitch! Sell your house and move somewhere where the noise problem isn’t a problem so I don’t have to read about you in my local paper.
Arto Saari
Arto’s the best. Arto’s the sweetest, most kindest, gentlest… I love to snuggle with him.
Check out Grosso’s
Loveletters to Skateboarding
on the
Vans Youtube page
.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  May 9, 2024
A Tale of Two Cities
LOVE Malmö rendering, 2024
Words by Ben Powell
For a variety of reasons, Malmö, Sweden has been at the vanguard of a progressive approach to embracing what skateboard culture can offer to its host cities for well over a decade. This is not to say that Malmö is the only place foregrounding its indigenous skateboard community as a force for good beyond the confines of its participants, nor that what has been happening in Sweden’s third largest city is unique. What is undeniable though, is that Malmö absolutely punches above its weight in terms of global influence by creating an effective and symbiotic relationship between the city’s governance and the embedded skate culture. Regular readers of this magazine ought to be well aware of what this situation entails; from the pioneering work in the field of education undertaken by the city’s Bryggeriet gymnasium; to the work of
Gustav Eden
; through to the influence of Malmö natives like Pontus Alv, Jon Magnusson, Nils Svensson and many more in all of the mediums that they touch.
Due to this rich and innovative milieu, Malmö has been able to conceptualise and follow through with projects that would’ve seemed unthinkable back in the 1990s and is rightly celebrated (along with its Danish neighbours) as a forward-thinking city which understands and comprehends skateboard culture in a holistic manner.
Into this existing context came the announcement earlier this year of the LOVE Malmö project which, at first glance, seemed unbelievable even by the exalted standards of a city world-famous for its revolutionary approach to city space.
In his official capacity as Skateboarding Coordinator for the City of Malmö, Gustav has long made it clear that whilst skatepark provision is one aspect of his role, the other and arguably much more culturally significant one is to explore ways to incorporate skate-intended space into the fabric of the city itself. LOVE Malmö took this central ethos and ran with it so that not only was the plan to create a plaza space in an area of Malmö with deep roots in local skate history in honour of Philadelphia’s iconic but sadly demolished plaza, but to actually import salvaged materials from LOVE Park itself to do so.
LOVE Malmö, June 2024. Ph. Sam Ashley
Explaining the genesis of LOVE Malmö, Gustav is keen to place this project within a wider context.
“Malmö’s reputation as a skate-friendly city stems from how the skate community and the municipality have successfully collaborated in ways that benefit the city. A big part of this is about translation between different perspectives. Bryggeriet have shown how skateboarding events can be attractive to the general public,
Bryggeriets Gymnasium
have shown how the passion for skateboarding can be a driver for a good education and I have worked with how skateboarding, given the right context and design, can bring life and social value to the city.
For me, the translation has been about showing how skate spots become social spaces. Street spots where skaters need to negotiate and maintain relationships with the public fulfil a function that skateparks do not. Here skateboarding can add to and complement the life of the city, as opposed to being separated from it. Skate spots don’t divide users based on age, gender or demography or close at a given time. They also become cultural spaces where skaters exchange cultural information, create networks and instigate projects that can take the shape of everything from skate-videos, to companies, to exhibitions.
This happens organically and is rarely acknowledged outside the skateboarding world. Most citizens of Philadelphia would not be aware that LOVE Park was the stage for one of the most impactful expressions of skateboarding culture in the late ‘90s. If LOVE had been a museum or sports arena, you could point to the renown of the institutions or number of visitors, but with skateboarding, you need to be within skateboarding to realise what
Ricky’s mic’d-up lines
, Gall’s gap-50, Stevie’s style or Kalis’ tre over the bin (and the list goes on) means.
When LOVE was being redeveloped in 2015, this meant that one of the most iconic spaces in the culture would disappear. All the skaters around the world who were wondering what the flat and ledges were like would lose the opportunity to have that experience. That line on the bucket list would remain uncrossed.”
Whilst the premise seems reasonable enough within the context of Gustav’s previous work, the logistics involved and the ambition to not only create a plaza commemorating LOVE Park but to do so by importing the salvaged granite that LOVE Park was constructed from is on another level. It’s almost as if we’re entering new unchartered realms here that have as much to do with global communities, architectural conservation and recycling as they do with jazzing up a pedestrian area by adding a couple of nice grindable benches.
Gustav agrees, “When LOVE Park was being lost, I wanted to try and see if we could help to preserve parts of the space so that the history of LOVE Park could continue. Give skaters back the opportunity to experience the spot – from dimensions to textures. We also wanted to celebrate the skaters who gave the spot its significance and invite skateboarding into the city. An interactive monument of sorts.”
Monumentalizing the multifarious contributions of Philadelphia’s skateboard scene to the world in a Swedish city 4000 miles away might seem somewhat ironic at first glance but, as ever, Gustav brought historical and cultural sensitivity to the process. In less capable hands the whole enterprise could easily have ended up creating a Disneyfied replica with all the materiality but none of the soul of the original, but due diligence and an encyclopaedic passion for Philadelphia’s skate history has avoided these pitfalls. After all, if you’re trying to recreate a section of arguably the most influential city plaza of all time, the very last thing you’d want to do is make it feel like a skatepark, right?
This is where the established protocols that the city of Malmö have in place proved invaluable in so far as giving Gustav the ability to directly contact the city of Philadelphia as a verified employee of the Swedish state. Imagine cold calling a city 4000 miles away to inquire about buying granite slabs from a recently demolished city plaza without the benefit of being a recognized government employee. You’d be hung up on faster than a ‘have you ever been in car accident?’ cold caller. Instead, due to Gustav’s and Malmö ’s credentials, this ostensibly ridiculous request fell onto sympathetic ears and just over a year after LOVE Park was shut down and demolished (February 2016) Gustav was already taking delivery of salvaged materials from the greatly missed urban space.
Before we go into the logistics involved in doing the above, it’s important to explore the prehistory of this LOVE Malmö project as, without the intercession of certain Philly heads, none of what we’re talking about would’ve been possible. It seems safe to assume that most people outside of Philadelphia probably first discovered that huge amounts of the granite that made up LOVE Park had been ‘saved’ from Josh Kalis’ ‘
Out There
’ video. What that video didn’t do however was to explain how those piles of granite tiles and well-loved ledges ended up there in the first place. Cue Pat Heid of SkatePhilly to fill in the gaps…
Love Malmö under construction, April 2024. Ph. Gustav Eden
For those who are not already aware,
SkatePhilly
is a non-profit organisation advocating for skate culture in the Philadelphia area with a view to connecting communities across the city through skateboarding. (Once you’ve finished reading this, go follow them on Instagram at @skatephilly to keep up to date with the amazing projects they’re working on). In traditionally magnanimous fashion, Gustav was adamant about letting the Philadelphia scene speak for themselves on this aspect of the narrative.
Pat Heid was also keen to preface our conversation by explaining that his involvement in
SkatePhilly
began after the materials from LOVE were salvaged, removed and stored, as at that point he was still living in California.
“My involvement began around the time that the granite was being delivered to Gustav in Sweden. The early conversations that facilitated that process were with a city employee called Bob Allen plus Josh Nims and the Franklin Paine Skatepark Fund, (which was the precursor to SkatePhilly as it is now). I feel duty bound to add some detail here though as there are some crucial things that keep getting missed out of the story, which is really unfair and misleading.”
Brian Douglas, Brian Panebanco and Pat Heid at the Love ‘graveyard’. Ph. Zander Taketomo
These omissions mostly relate to how the granite was originally salvaged at the point where LOVE was being demolished. Pat continues:
“The way the story has been told so far has made it sound like the city of Philly took all this granite and deposited it in the storage yard but in reality, none of that would’ve happened if it weren’t for one specific person, who really deserves to be recognised.
‘Love Park Heather’ is the person who facilitated the granite being saved: without her donating a lot of her time and money on a volunteer-basis the materials that Gustav has, the materials that Kalis has, and the materials currently being used in numerous SkatePhilly projects would’ve ended up being discarded. None of the things that we’re discussing would’ve happened without her and I feel that she’s been missing from a lot of the conversations around this so far.”
Heather’s intercession to save what remained of LOVE post-demolition warrants further discussion despite the allure of mystery. Pat explains, “Heather was a skater who localised LOVE who we considered to be the ‘Godmother of LOVE Park’ in the final ‘Sabotage generation’. She was always there and was a big part of the downtown scene for a long time. She was also a successful lawyer who’d helped Josh Kalis get hold of some of the City Hall benches prior to this endeavour. Heather was nimble with figuring out the legal and logistical side of things and she also had the money to get things moving in a way that most of the other people involved didn’t. When all the LOVE stuff got taken to the storage yard by tractor trailer, she was there for a week overseeing the process. She hired a forklift to move things around, she labelled all the tiles and the other pieces, she had all the measurements and weights of everything and put all that information into spreadsheets. There’s this crazy inventory that she’d created that catalogued every single piece of LOVE that she’d managed to salvage. A pretty epic feat really.”
Looked at from today’s perspective with SkatePhilly involved in the redevelopment of another of Philly’s iconic plazas (more on that later) using these salvaged materials, and of course the LOVE Malmö project, it may seem unthinkable that Philadelphia might well have just discarded the LOVE granite, but it came very close to that happening.
As Pat explains, “The plan initially was that the city would just demolish LOVE and get rid of all the granite and features at the same time. This is where Heather came in, to stop the city just trashing everything. She hired a bunch of trucks to transport all the tiles and ledges and co-ordinated with Josh Nims and the Franklin Paine Skatepark Fund. She organised a day with the city to get approval to turn up with the trucks she’d hired to pick up the materials as LOVE was being demolished. Tiles were stacked up, ledges and significant pieces of the original layout were identified and put to one side so that Heather could orchestrate this whole thing. Josh Nims, Heather, Brandon John who owns
Nocturnal skateshop
, (and used to skate for Traffic skateboards) and a few other volunteers were the people who came together and ‘saved’ the material from LOVE in the first place.”
Volunteerism and collective action lay at the core of the initial drive to save what remained of LOVE for posterity, even if at that point there was no plan beyond stopping the footprint of America’s most iconic skate spot being dumped like trash.
It was at this point that Gustav first approached the city of Philadelphia to ask if there were any remnants of LOVE Park left.
The Love Park ‘graveyard’. Ph. Zander Taketomo
“Love shut down in Feb 2016 and within the following months Heather had orchestrated this salvage operation and created this intensely detailed catalogue of what was there. I don’t think Gustav was expecting that at all,”explains Pat.
“Heather hadn’t bought the materials either, they were still technically the property of the city but the Parks & Rec’ Dept had agreed that if she coordinated with them to identify this storage site about 10 minutes outside of the city and sorted out the logistics, then the skate scene could keep it safe until someone came up with a plan of how to repurpose it. All this happened between the 2016/2017 period, so I personally wasn’t involved but after it had happened, I moved back from California to Philly. I’d moved back here and caught wind of this and started going to some meetings because I was concerned about what was going to happen with all this granite. I wanted to make sure that whatever it ended up being repurposed as was appropriate to the legacy of LOVE Park. But it turned out that not much had happened to be honest. The materials were safe but little progress had been made beyond that…”
This is where Gustav Eden entered the picture:
“When news reached me that LOVE was going, I immediately wanted to try and intercede in some way, not knowing yet that the skaters had already managed to salvage a huge amount of material. As a fellow council officer, I was in a unique position to understand the dynamics of public institutions and to work with the City of Philadelphia to navigate a potential reconstruction.
Essentially, I just called the switchboard of the city and was put through to the amazing Bob Allen who was extremely helpful. Overall, the City of Philadelphia was very open to collaborate and we’re very grateful for that support. They helped us chase down Vincent Kling’s original blueprints and the spot where the granite from LOVE was originally quarried.
As a parallel process, I was in touch with Chris Mulhern who I met filming in London years ago and he connected me with Brian Panebianco, as well as Josh Nims from Skate Philly. I happened to be in LA at this time and went to Philly to see them and to see if there was a path here to resurrect parts of LOVE.
It was very important to me and all of us that this project was about the Philadelphia skate scene and the history of LOVE. No one else can claim that history – it belongs to Philly. If we were to take on the responsibility of reconstructing a section of LOVE, it would need to be done the right way. Woven into the city. Built according to the original plans. Surrounded by other skate-spots.
When the spot opens, we want the skaters from Philly to know that it is a homage to them. Malmö has no claims – we just wanted to help bring the spot back to all of those who never got to skate it. We also hope that we can work with SkatePhilly in the future on bringing skaters from Philly out here to skate it.”
Gustav’s militancy about ensuring that the cultural meanings of LOVE Park would be preserved, regardless of what shape a Swedish rebuild project would take, raised an interesting, if slightly awkward issue. Would the skaters of Philly, particularly those outside of the advocacy work of the Franklin Paine Skatepark Fund and then later SkatePhilly, see the Malmö project positively?
Pat fills in the gaps, “It’s been a sore point periodically, especially in the earliest days. When the news first broke about the Malmö project using materials from LOVE, the reporting made it seem as though all the materials that were salvaged were going overseas, so there was some damage control needed there. The reality was that it was only a relatively small amount of granite that made it to Sweden – some tiles and some blocks. All the most significant features were never going to leave Philadelphia.”
Gustav’s sensitivity to the skate community that he was in some respects ‘plundering history’ from went a long way to allay those fears however, particularly due to him involving Brian Panebianco in the process of selecting which artefacts would and wouldn’t be appropriate for the LOVE Malmö project.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Free Skateboard Magazine (@freeskatemag)
Pat again, “When Gustav came to Philly to pick the stuff, Brian Panebianco and Chris Mulhern were there too, to help Gustav and to document the process. Brian is the biggest nerd out of all of us as far as the LOVE granite goes. He spent the most time there as a member of the ‘last generation’. He went and advised Gustav on what he could take without us losing the most valuable stuff as far as the Philly skate community goes. This helped to foster a sense of collaboration between Gustav’s project and what we are working on with SkatePhilly.”
Gustav echoes that sentiment, “Once we’d spoken with Brian and co we agreed on what we could take without creating animosity or overstepping the mark. We have enough original tiles to create an authentic surface at the newly built spot. As to ledges, I didn’t want to take any that had been skated during LOVE’s heyday. That felt like too much of a claim – like the Center Block, (the one most people would associate with Wenning popping out) – that belongs in a full LOVE reconstruction or even a museum. Taking skated ledges didn’t feel right. We did take some trash cans and a lamp post, though. The granite will be the same, but not the actual skated ledges. So, it’s authentic, but it respects the history of the original space.”
Love Malmö under construction, awaiting the granite ledges to be added, 2024. Ph. Gustav Eden
This collaborative approach has paid dividends and has laid the foundations for mutually beneficial cooperation between Gustav and the hugely exciting work that SkatePhilly is undertaking currently. Serendipitously, (although perhaps not at first), during the process of Pat and co working with Gustav on the LOVE Malmö project, Philly’s final extant city plaza was fenced off and another redevelopment was announced. Muni had filled in the gaps left by the demolition of both LOVE and City Hall in the intervening years and had nourished the talents and careers of the next generation of skaters representing Philadelphia’s downtown skateboard scene. The irony of the city tearing down Muni with no advance warning whilst a city 4000 miles away was working on rebuilding a section of LOVE was not lost on Pat Heid and in some way fired him up to advocate for the inclusion of skateable space in whatever the proposed Muni redevelopment ended up being.
The unexpected nature of Muni’s demolition came as a huge shock to those already involved in SkatePhilly as Pat explains, “When the fences went up at Muni we were all dumbfounded as nobody had any idea what was going on and there’d been no communication at all from the city beforehand. We literally turned up one day to find fences up with a sign saying, ‘Phase 1 Thomas Paine Plaza Redevelopment Project’, so everyone was losing their minds. I’d been pretty connected to the city authorities through working on various projects with SkatePhilly, and we’d used some LOVE materials at a small skatepark already, so we were pretty connected in terms of being perceived as a credible activist group. I knew that communicating with the on-site project manager was probably the closest connect to try and figure out what was going on. So I was going down there a lot for the first couple of weeks after the fences went up, just trying to find people to talk to. Eventually I stumbled across the site manager and the architects who were on site talking granite, so I introduced myself and SkatePhilly and explained how we were interested in salvaging the benches and the dominoes, which then started a conversation with that organisation.”
Muni fenced off, Philadelphia, 2023. Ph. Zander Taketomo
Unsurprisingly, given what had happened historically with Philadelphia and the sense of betrayal the skate community felt after the 2001 X-Games debacle and the refusal of the DC million dollar offer to preserve LOVE, SkatePhilly’s expectations of the possibility of being included in the plans for the Muni redevelopment were far from optimistic. However, emboldened by recent successes with
Front Street Park
in South Philadelphia, (which uses some pieces of the fountain blocks from LOVE and some ledges that were previously situated on JFK Boulevard) and with Malmö happening in the background, Pat attended a public meeting and threw everything he had at it knowing that with LOVE and City Hall already gentrified and gone, this was the last chance to secure skateable plaza space in the centre of the city.
Asked whether SkatePhilly were able to use the in-progress Malmö project as leverage with the proposals for Muni, Pat was unequivocal.
“I used Malmö as the last slide in my original proposal on a kind of, ‘Hey I don’t know if you know this, but a lot of the LOVE granite got shipped to Sweden and they’re building this official plaza spot in Malmö in recognition of the cultural significance of our city’s skateboard scene.’ They didn’t have a clue originally, so it certainly surprised them in the sense of it being a little embarrassing that our city hadn’t been open to even think of it, whilst there’s a city on the other side of the world creating a plaza replicating a space from Philly with materials from our destroyed centrepiece. Not only was the final of Philly’s globally famous city plazas falling victim to yet another phase of redevelopment and gentrification but once again, the major stakeholders and users of that space, namely us, the skateboard community were not even considered or mentioned in the plans. I threw everything I had at that presentation: I went back to the Ricky Oyola and
EE3
days, I showed video and photographs, I discussed the generational effect that those spaces (LOVE, City Hall and Muni) had for the inner-city youth of our city and how careers had been built there and how those opportunities kept progressive youth in Philadelphia rather than them moving away. I pointed out how skateboarders made these areas safer, particularly after office hours. I made every point I could and then just left it in their hands. It also didn’t hurt the argument that the Muni issue of
Thrasher
dropped right at the same time, along with
Brian’s edit from ‘The Pit’
(the lower level of Muni), which garnered almost 900k views in a week or so. Everything just fell into place.”
Happily, after a couple of weeks of silence, the city got back in touch with Pat, clearly impressed by both his passion and by the indisputable fact that including skateboarders in the redevelopment process offered an organic way to ‘activate’ the space and to differentiate it from the redevelopments at City Hall and LOVE.
“A few weeks after that they called me back after thinking it through and talking to people at Muni about their thoughts on skaters and their responses backed up what I’d said in the meeting. People did feel safer when there were people skating Muni rather than the space just being full of crackheads. I mean, who knew? So, from a start point of being completely removed from the plans, SkatePhilly and the skate community have now been given almost a third of the space formerly occupied by Muni and been tasked with designing skateboarding into this space using salvaged objects from the original plaza. Quite the turnaround really…”
Saved Muni ledges loaded up onto a flatbed, 2023. Ph. Pat Heid
How do these two related but geographically disparate projects sit together as both move towards completion? Clearly the goals of both are similar: to construct skateable plazas within existing cities intended to function as urban space with skateboarders in it, rather than skateparks where non-participants are denied access. Likewise, both spaces veer towards new vistas related to the reuse and recycling of construction materials and the preservation of culturally significant city architecture.
Both Pat and Gustav utilise many of the same arguments too as both point towards the fact that skateboarding objectively makes spaces safer, particularly in terms of perception by other users and stakeholders. The responses that the city of Philadelphia received about the general public’s perception of the positive aspects of skateboarding being present in the city echo Gustav’s provable take on the benefits of designing skateboarding into urban space.
“People are less prone to engage in disreputable activities if they are exposed. As such, areas that are unpopulated tend to be attractive for those wishing to engage in activities they’d rather not have people see. Spaces that lack any reason for people to dwell in or engage with run the risk of becoming ‘blind spots’. By introducing an attractive skate-spot, skaters will populate the area, meaning that those spots will no longer be blind. That in itself is likely to reduce certain behaviours in the neighbourhood. Beyond this, skateboarders are not shy about claiming a space. This is sometimes more important than you think. For most people, entering an empty space and performing an activity is a big social challenge. Just stepping into a square and dancing, doing yoga or some other activity takes a lot of courage. It is a lot easier, however, if someone else is already being active in the space. If someone else is being active, it can provide an alibi for others to be active too.”
The granite ledges cut from the same North Carolina quarry as Love Park’s ledges have arrived, May 2024. Ph. Gustav Eden
There is of course another side to this and it’s important not to be myopic about the fact that city spaces such as LOVE Malmö and the Thomas Paine Plaza in Philadelphia are not intended to be solely for skateboarders. Ironically, if that was the case and an exclusionary mindset arose from the local skate communities then these spaces currently being championed as examples of a new and revolutionary way of creating and activating city space would end up just being skateparks, which is the diametric opposite of what both groups wanted. As Gustav sagely puts it, “There is a flipside to the wholly warranted self-congratulation of those involved in projects like the two we’re discussing. Skaters provide an alibi, but can also be dominant, claiming spaces and excluding other users. This means that any city must be careful about how skateboarding will work at a space so that it is not ‘given away’ to the skaters and ‘taken away’ from everyone else. Multi-use and multifunctionality are key concepts to pursue where skateboarding can exist, but not dominate a given space.
At LOVE Malmö, skateboarding is expected to be quite dominant. This is because of the cultural significance of the space and because the space had little value before LOVE was introduced. While this is true, the space is also expected to operate as a stage for the school or other users and a lounging-area. The point of LOVE Malmö is that it is not a skatepark and this cuts both ways – skaters need to be respectful too. It will be interesting to see the culture of the space evolve.”
Sarah Meurle, frontside nosegrind at LOVE Malmö. Ph. Sam Ashley
Pat echoes that sentiment, particularly as it relates to the problematic tightrope that anybody advocating for skateable city space inevitably exposes themselves to.
“We’re entering this period of trying to work out how you incorporate skateboarding into public space in the city. More and more places are starting to grasp onto this notion – New York’s doing all the stuff with the Brooklyn Banks, there’s the UN Plaza in SF, and then outside of the USA you’ve got places like Southbank, Malmö, Copenhagen, Barcelona – it’s everywhere now. I used all those examples to push the narrative on Philly. It’s starting to happen all over the world. The tricky thing is how you make these spaces feel natural and how you make them not be a skatepark.
That’s the biggest challenge for sure – how do you create these spaces in the city for skateboarding whilst retaining the vibe that made them significant in the first place? On the most basic level, in Philly we’ve all grown up running from cops. It’s going to be weird to not be running away from them to be honest. Maybe we need to designate some hours where skating isn’t tolerated just so we can retain that aspect of the culture. Maybe we could employ some security guards to hassle us to keep it authentic, haha.”
With LOVE Malmö due to officially open at the end of May and the final tweaks being added to the redevelopment plans for Muni, the intersection between the two projects looks set to continue and deepen. Pat and Gustav are already in talks to collaborate on activating the Thomas Paine Plaza once it’s completed using Gustav’s contacts and cachet as a springboard.
Early proposal plan for the redesign of Thomas Paine Plaza (aka Muni), January 2024.
“Gustav’s already suggested ideas like running a scholarship program whereby kids from Philly could go to Bryggeriet for a semester or something. Kids from here would never have that opportunity otherwise so the whole Malmö/LOVE connection is opening plenty of doors potentially. That’s the sort of partnership we’re thinking about, and we’re involved in the activations for the opening of the Malmö Plaza and adding our voices as representatives of the place being monumentalized in Sweden.”
Philly OGs: Roger Browne, Ricky Oyola and Sergei Trudnowski at the LOVE Malmö opening. Ph. Sam Ashley
Exciting times indeed. Even more so if you’ve caught any of the rumours about slated plans for a full LOVE Park rebuild at some point in the (hopefully) not too distant future utilising partnerships built through these current projects. (Not to mention Gustav’s contacts at the North Carolina quarry where all the original LOVE granite came from). For now, though, that remains a potentiality but one that seems a hell of a lot more realisable than it would have only a decade ago. If you’re able, get to Malmö for the opening, which runs from May 30th – June 2nd to skate and take in the numerous events set up around those dates (check
@skatemalmo.se
for details). If you can’t manage that then fire up any of
Brian Panebianco’s ‘Sabotage
’ videos and revel in the possibility of getting to skate what the world assumed were permanently extinguished plazas on the other side of the Atlantic. Follow
@skatephilly
to keep up to date with the Thomas Paine Plaza project and keep your eyes on
Free
’s channels for coverage of venerable marble getting the love it deserves.
Multi-generational big ups to all involved in whatever capacity here – truly paradigm-shifting stuff.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 22, 2018
Is skateboarding still norm-breaking?
One of the most memorable moments from
Pushing Boarders
earlier this month was A. Dabbadie’s speech at the  ‘Not just some homogenised bullshit’: Skateboarding and the Gender-Identity Evolution lecture. After the talk we spoke with A and mutually decided it would benefit all if we published the speech in full on our website.
Hi, my name is A.
My pronouns are they/them/their.
I am a transgender person, a photographer, a skateboarder, a writer and a zine maker. I define as non-binary genderqueer, which means I don’t identify with neither male or female. I have been skating for over 10 years and have been a part of the female skate scene for most of these years as it was the closest I could identify with. I have been documenting the female skate scene extensively for many years and I am still fascinated with its progress – more and more high ranked female skateboarders are getting sponsored by bigger brands and getting the visibility they always deserved. This wouldn’t have happened without female key players like
Hoopla
,
Rogue Skateboards
and
Meow Skateboards
working really hard to support the female skate scene professionally when no one else was. The female skate scene inspired me and made me feel safe in the skate community but it never quite felt right on the personal level. I always had issues identifying myself with a woman.
When I moved to Malmö in 2015, I started to understand myself in ways I didn’t before. Moving to Malmö was like getting the keys to a whole new world, a world where my identity could grow freely. I dived in the queer scene outside of the skate world and started to understand my own identity better. Being in the queer scene and exchanging with queer individuals, I discovered new identities I could identify with. I never really felt like a gendered person at all and called myself androgynous and identified with they gay community as only resource, but it never really felt right. I had no idea many more words existed to express my identity. Getting to know these words helped legitimise my identity and my overall existence in the world as a non gendered individual. But at first, I kept this identity out of the picture when skateboarding. I didn’t think skateboarding was ready for it. I felt anger towards the skate scene many times and often wondered if I should quit. Do I want to be a part of this overly macho culture? Do I want to use my personal resources for something that seems so hard to change?
Skateboarding, like society, has always been a binary practice dividing male and female and the idea of explaining my identity at every session felt like a struggle that would take the fun out of it. But when I met two other genderqueer skateboarders, Emil and Leio, I realized I wasn’t the only gender non-conforming person in the skate scene. It pushed me to use my voice, my visibility and my reach in the skateboard community to educate people about queer topics and it gave me the necessary hope and energy to start working towards making skateboarding a safe and queer inclusive space.
I founded
Xem Skaters
, a genderqueer skate zine two years ago to support photos of Emil and Leio I was exhibiting in London during the Unicorn Skate Jam. I wanted people to understand why I was exhibiting these photos. They were my first step towards giving visibility to genderqueer people in the skate scene. Xem Skaters came out of the desire to make skateboarding more inclusive and ready to understand queer identities but also out a personal need for my own sustainability in the skate world. I also wanted to publish the kind of information I would have needed earlier in my life to better cope with my own identity. And I thought: ‘why not create my own skate queer community?’. If we were three in Sweden, there might be more in the world. So I wrote a call for submissions and shared it with all girl skate medias and networks I could think of. I was first hesitant to the success of the zine. At the time, I did some research about queer and trans skaters and could only find
Hillary Thompson’s interview in
Jenkem Mag
and a podcast about Jamie Peralta, a genderqueer skater from New York. But I soon started to receive more and more interest, submissions and messages from queer people in the skate community worldwide. Three issues filled with queer skating material later, I realise how my zine was needed and became a tool to create and support a counter-culture to skateboarding, the queer skate community.
There is a huge gap between the representation of skateboarding by male dominated medias and women and queer led medias. Women and queer led medias are giving a new face to skateboarding, one that is closer to its audience and less fed by the rock star syndrome and male dominated hierarchies.
One of my goals with Xem Skaters is to feature different identities and to give a voice to people with different narratives in order to create more diverse role models and encourage more individual identity building within skateboarding.
I’ve lost interest in main medias for skateboarding long time ago as I felt like they did not represent my way of skateboarding and the people I skated with. Just look at
Thrasher’s
website front page and try count how many non cis-male people are represented. Or pick up any widely distributed magazines and do the same thing. To survive in the world, you need to surround yourself with people and things that matter to you and make you feel safe. And to survive in the skate world, I felt like I needed to protect myself from the mainstream views of skateboarding. The overall representation of skateboarding didn’t and still doesn’t make me feel safe. Women in skateboarding, as in society have been and are still objectified. Naked women printed on skateboards,
transgender imageries used as jokes
, the
monster girls
delivering trophees at competitions, women asked to pose in videos, king of the road challenges pushing skaters to harass women in the streets are just examples of how bad it is. Skateboarding, widely, is not respecting women and trans people.
When gender non conforming people or women are pushed to the front of main male dominated medias, the comment section is
revolting
. They reflect the ignorance about inclusivity of the overall crowd populating skateboarding. Skateboarders still claim to break norms and some male skaters complain about the need for safe spaces for women and queer people but the comment sections filled with sexualising, threatening, homophobic and transphobic comments clearly show why these safe spaces are needed.
Recently, I have been in contact with several individuals that quit skateboarding some years ago when they decided to transition. They felt like transitioning while being in a skate culture was too much and were afraid of bullying and mistreatment towards their transition. I know a lot of male skaters would say ‘I’m cool with that’ when talking about trans people for example but that’s not enough. We need male skaters to educate themselves and call each other out on a regular basis. We need allies.
But fortunately, right now women and queer people are creating their own countercultures and spaces in the skate scene instead of trying to fit and be a part of traditional male dominated picture. I call these counter-cultures because they are not reproducing skateboarding practices that encourage high performance, competition and often self-destruction but instead they create and display their own ways of skateboarding. Women and queer skaters have always been there but they have been widely under represented or misrepresented.
With the rise of social medias, more and more people can communicate and connect faster. This enables movements, organisations and brands like
the Skate Witches
,
Unity Skateboarding
,
Doyenne skateboards
,
The Skate Kitchen
,
Pave The Way
,
Skate Like a Girl
to strive and grow. These brands, organisations and movements are very positive and differentiate themselves from the male picture of skateboarding – they carry inclusivity and fun. They are inviting, welcoming, DIY and create safe spaces for people to meet and share. They encourage creativity. They educate and give visibility to non dominant experiences, they build and mobilise community. Women, queer and non-conforming skateboarders are pushing more and more social change and body positivity in the skateboard landscape. They also create new role models. Everyone can be a part of the club as long as they respect and embrace people’s differences.
I think that mains medias and brands should try to adapt to these powerful countercultures within skateboarding if they do want to represent skateboarding as it is now and keep claiming their subversivity.
Isn’t the rise of these women and queer-led subversive movements also symptomatic of the fact that skateboarding on the main medias and skateboarding icons are no longer representing skateboarders nor able to welcome diversity?
Skateboarding seems like a fruitful ground to integrate and carry social change because of its diversity and its radical aspects. It just needs to be more educated. I want skateboarders to question themselves as part of a radical movement and to educate themselves about their differences. Skateboarding is such a beautiful thing that gathers people from different backgrounds, and is a radical practice that reimagine cities, ways of life and transcends borders. But I think skateboarding has been resting on its ‘norm breaking’ status and has missed a couple of episodes when it comes to social change. Skateboarding is not actually breaking norms anymore but instead often perpetuating archaics of patriarchy and oppression. Toxic masculinity, better known as ‘the cool dude attitude’ can no longer define skateboarding.
However, I think that us, being here today is a sign of positive change. A couple solutions to the problems I mentioned during this talk include having more women queer stakeholders in skateboarding medias. I want to see more women and queer writers, photographers and filmers. This would ensure a better representation of diverse women and queer people in skateboard medias. We also need skateparks and skate organisations to allow and encourage safe spaces in skateparks. We can maybe consider introducing pronoun rounds like Skate Like a Girl at the beginning of women and queer sessions. And we also need more men to bring up awareness and use their visibility to educate and call each other out.
Lastly, I want to take the opportunity to have the microphone today to deliver a message to all girl session organisers. First, I want to thank you for your work and for creating safe spaces for people to learn how to skate and to meet. It is important and needed. Second, I’d like to ask you to consider opening the doors to your safe spaces to queer / trans / non-binary people expressively. And if you need guidance or have questions on how to do this, feel free to contact me, I’d love to help.
Thank you.
A
A, layback grind at SouthBank. Photo by Jenna Selby
A’s questions for the readers:
Have you ever witnessed any kind of racist, sexist, homophobic, transphobic behaviors at your local skateparks? If so, what did you do about it? It’s time to check your privileges and take responsibility.
If skateboarding welcomed you when you felt like an outcast or a weirdo in the world, maybe it’s time to think on how you could make skateboarding more welcoming to other minorities.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 2, 2023
Roll Deep: Converse in Buenos Aires

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 17, 2015
Stefan Janoski Interview
Stefan Janoski Interview
While we were in Berlin last week for the
trade
shows
and the
Berlin Open
we ran into Stefan Janoski. He was in town for the release of the
Civilist x Nike SB Spree pack launch
. We thought it would be good to have a quick chat with Stefan (who couldn’t stop hiccupping) to find out what he’s been up to lately…
Interview by Will Harmon – Portrait by Sam Ashley
So Stefan, what brings you to Berlin?
I came to Berlin for the Civilist collaboration with my shoe.
So had you been to
Civilist
before?
Yeah, well I’ve known Alex (Foley) for a long time. I’ve been here before; I think it was four or five years ago. I was on an Analog trip here years ago. I’m also around for the trade show and the contest, but mostly the main reason to come was for the launch of this Civilist shoe.
So will you get to do any skating whilst you’re over here?
Hiccup (Stefan can’t stop hiccupping…)
Can someone get this guy some water!
I got them (hiccups) on the plane and then they went away. And then I took a shower and they came back.
Is this something chronic for you?
No, not that often. And then I had a drink with bitters in it… You ever do that?
Yeah.
It’s an old wives’ tale that you put bitters into some water…
I usually just hold my breath…
Yeah I tried that; it didn’t work. (Stefan is handed a pair of the Civilist x Nike SB Janoski’s) These are nice.
So did you help in the design of these shoes?
No it was all Alex and the Civilist guys. They designed if off the river Spree here in Berlin. The river is really polluted with oily water. So the shoe kinda looks like a polluted oily, gasoline looking colour. It’s a really nice summer shoe. The river looks really beautiful and it’s hot, so you wanna jump in it, but don’t!
Zoom Stefan Janoski PR QS Spree Pack. Photo courtesy of Civilist
But if you do, your shoes will be camouflaged…
If you do, take a shower. I mean Fred Gall wouldn’t care.
S
o what else has been going on? Have you been travelling this year?
Yeah, I’ve been travelling and skating. I actually broke my metatarsal bone on my little pinky toe, so I haven’t skated in almost two months. But I was planning on skating again in the contest (The Nike SB Berlin Open) in front of everyone for the first time. (Laughs) I know all the kids will be around, so they’ll be psyched (laughs). I did a 360 flip on the carpet yesterday – first one in a month and half.
So did you go to the doctor for this toe?
Yeah, but they said it’ll just heal on its own. I did get one of those stupid boots, but all it did was make me walk weird and it hurt my back. I felt like it was hurting more parts on my body than the actual foot so… But other than that I’ve been in California…
But you live in Brooklyn, NY right?
Yeah I live in Brooklyn, but this year I’ve been in Mexico and Miami. I mean I hurt my foot and it was hot in New York, so I figured if I’m going to be hurt and it’s hot I might as well be in Miami.
Go jump in the ocean!
Yeah exactly! But before that I was in Cali hanging with Omar (Salazar).
So these trips have they been for leisure or filming with Habitat or Nike?
Actually I’ve been doing a lot of trips with
Official
, this hat company. So we went to Mexico recently with them. We went to
Korea
… I mean I go on Nike trips, but more like for this kind of stuff because I was in the first
Chronicles
video. And we finished ours super-fast; it was really good. And then all these other videos take like hella long… (laughs) I’m just waiting. Maybe I’ll film something for Nike. I’m just waiting for these guys to hurry up! (Laughs)
Chronicles
took us like a year. I don’t know
Chronicles 3
… and a half years is what they should call it. Just kidding! Haha…
So will there be a
Chronicles 4
after this next one?
It’s the Chronicles… It just keeps going. I mean there are more people on the team and they could keep it going. I wanna be in another one!
Are you filming for anything in particular right now or not really?
Yeah online. Just Internet trips (laughs). Just wherever I go ends up on the Internet somewhere.
So you prefer to be in a big video?
Well it’s fun to work on a project and piece it together.
Well you’ve been in the skate game a long time and that’s kind of the older way to do it…
Yeah this is the first time for me, after
Chronicles
, this is the first time for me that no one has been making that type of video anymore. So it’s more like ‘oh we are going to go here’ and then they make a video out of that. Like Official in Korea or
Habitat in Oregon
.
Civilist x Nike SB QS Spree Janoski Max. Photo courtesy of Civilist.
So is it weird not collecting your footage along the way for a big part?
Yeah. And you know before when you had to find out where everything was? Calling up the filmers: “Yo, you know that fucking tailslide, I need that! Didn’t you film that? Who was that? I need that tailslide!” I want to do that again. I’m just not that motivated to do the one man video part thing.
I
t seems like Habitat is always coming out with videos though. I mean I guess
the last one
mainly focused on De La (Brian Delatorre) and (Mark) Suciu though…
Oh yeah. It’s good to do that – It’s good to have stuff coming out, even if it’s just tours right?
Yeah.
I like those ones. I even like demo tours videos.
Well I think it’s good for the brands to have stuff coming out all the time. But then again, these longer “full” videos take a long time, but they are nicer to watch. These are the ones you actually take the time to re-watch.
Yeah. The short ones entertain you, but you hardly watch more than once. The longer ones are better, but they take so long to make; I think that’s the problem.
Well are you up to anything else whilst you are here in Berlin? You taking in the sights or have you done that before?
My wife is with me so we are going to see some sights. I mean I‘ve never seen any sights anywhere…Other than skate spots (laughs).

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  March 25, 2019
Lordz Wheels: 1998 -2006
Flo Marfaing, nollie heelflip noseslide, Paris, 2002. Ph: Sébastien Michelini.
For a lot of people Lordz and the undeniable impact it had on European skating always came with its share of mystery. How is it that
They Don’t Give A Fuck About Us
, one of the most influential videos of our generation, a pillar of early 2000s Euro-tech skating, was produced by a wheel company? Think about it: trips to LA and Japan, ads in every mag, a team that included guys like Bastien Salabanzi… It’s hard not to wonder how they did it, especially at a time when outside of maybe Cliché and Blueprint, no other hardware brands were operating on that scale this side of the Atlantic. We caught up with some of Lordz’s key players to chat about
TDGAFAU
, but also a multitude of other (sometimes less obvious) factors that contributed to the company’s success.
– Arthur Derrien
The crew
From speaking to some of the guys the general consensus was that although the brand brought some of them closer, they’d already been tight for a while. ‘The crazy thing for us is that we were already a crew,’ explained Franck Barattiero. ‘If none of this had happened most of us would still have been skating together every day in Paris. It’s just that suddenly someone started paying for us to go skate with our friends somewhere else, sometimes at spots we’d dreamed of skating our whole lives. It was pretty mad…’ Franck’s narrative is obviously a little different to say JB’s who was already pretty established and going on tours with other sponsors but it’s this mix of big names and underground Parisians that made the whole operation seem so authentic. Anyway this ‘someone’ that decided to invest in the crew was a guy named Stephen Teng. The first three people he put on were Stéphane Larance, Luypa Sin and Nao Nussbaum, and through them he was introduced to the rest of the squad. From what I gathered he may have done a few crooked grinds at some point in his life but he was definitely more of an entrepreneur than a skater. We’ll come back to him later.
Someone that is crucial to properly introduce at this stage is Nao as he quickly took on an important role behind the scenes, handling the marketing and art direction (amongst other things). ‘Nao was one of our mates, who was on the team but who also worked for the brand doing all the graphics and stuff,’ said Franck. ‘It was perfect! We’d all skate the same spots, all be into the same shit… Everything was linked and I think that really came across in the videos and everything we did. It was one of the brands’ strengths… It’s rare for companies to have that feel to them these days.’
Parallel to all this you had the birth of Puzzle: the European video magazine. It was started by some of their friends who quickly ended up sharing the same office, with eventually some people working for both companies. If you’re a new brand trying to get exposure, essentially being a media platform is pretty effective way to go about it.
Luypa Sin, backside tailslide, Paris, 2004. Ph: Sébastien Michelini.
The Product
One of the greatest misconceptions about Lordz is that they were just a wheel company. Sure they sold a shitload of those ones with the weird plastic bit at the centre of the urethane (Hard Cores? Dual Cores?) during those few years when (for reasons I’m still unsure of) everyone was skating them, but they mainly smashed it with the clothing. Nao talked us through how – at a time when American skate culture was all about piss drunx and skinny jeans – they managed to make us want a track pants you could unzip into shorts. ‘So the Lordz team stood out because they were amazing skaters but also because of how they dressed. Everything about them was technical. We were all heavily influenced by hip-hop but we were also very “sport”. Why did we make joggers? Because we loved skating in Nike joggers. We all grew up loving Nike at a time when Nike wasn’t in skateboarding. Why did we make stuff out of peach skin fabric (like velour)? Because hip-hop brands were using that material and it was comfortable. We wanted our clothing to be almost like our equipment for skating. Then what started off as a few pieces just to keep the guys on the team happy blew up…’
Being from France myself I always thought my perception of how big Lordz was might have been skewed by the fact that it was a French brand, so I asked Nao to give me an idea of just how much it actually ‘blew up’: ‘Basically when we first started Lordz we had no idea how a skater, say in Germany, dressed. It’s only when Puzzle arrived that we realised what we were making was bang on what people wanted to wear in the rest of Europe. You need to remember that this was at a time when everyone was very “rock”, particularly in America but even here. Like Sorry was the biggest video… And we just weren’t really into all that so we made our own shit.’
‘It’s the same thing as what’s going on now,’ Nao continued. ‘Look at what kids are wearing in Paris and London; it’s not what kids are wearing in California. They don’t want to look like that, they think it’s lame. Well it was the same thing with Lordz… Even with brands like Girl that we loved both in terms of team and vibe, when we’d look at a lot of the clothing they were putting out, we’d think it was wack. We wanted stuff that didn’t look like the existing skate clothes because we wanted them to actually be good for skating in. And trust me it wasn’t even a fashion thing because it’s not like we’d get let into the club wearing what we were wearing. It’s crazy how cyclical it feels when you look at brands like Palace or Hélas. I get a similar feeling from them… They just decided to do what they wanted to do with no restrictions because what everyone else was doing didn’t suit them and it worked. A part of it definitely comes down to luck though… I work in marketing today and looking back on it I still find it crazy how it all worked out. Nothing was really planned.’
By ‘all worked out’ what’s implied is that they managed to make enough money from their sales to provide for their bold marketing ambitions. ‘Their marketing budget was huge
for any company, let alone for a wheel one.’ explained Franck. ‘Everyone that had a pro wheel, which was everyone on the team at the end, was paid.’ According to their TM Benoit Copin, some of the guys were paid 900 euros a month at one point. Even today, it’s hard to imagine a wheel company paying their riders that much… All in all They Don’t Give A Fuck About Us allegedly cost the company a million Francs (this would be about €200k today).
Conspiracy
Before getting too deep into the TDGAFAU phase it’s probably important to acknowledge that contrary to what people often think, it wasn’t the brand’s only video. Conspiracy, their first full-length (2000) in fact played a key role in what came later: ‘To put it into context, before the first Lordz video a bunch of us barely ever filmed,’ stressed Franck. ‘We’d skate just as much but there just wasn’t anyone there to capture it. That changed with the people behind the brand investing lots of money into the production of videos, ads, etc: they got it straight away. So suddenly all these European filmers and photographers could properly progress because the crew they’d shoot with was actually enabling them to make a bit of money and focus on their craft, which in turn helped us progress because we’d be pushing ourselves more.’
Conspiracy was also extremely well received and although it didn’t get out there quite as much as the sequel, it definitely ended up in the right hands and was a huge confidence boost for the guys funding the operation as well as for the troops. Whilst reminiscing about the trip to LA from which stemmed the second video, Franck added: ‘I remember going to Mike Carroll’s because Lee Smith lived there or something, and right at the top of his stack of VHS tapes there was the Lordz Conspiracy video. Like he’d just been watching it! I still remember how much we tripped on that…’
Bastien Salabanzi, crooked grind, Paris, 2000. Ph: Leo Vernet.
They Don’t Give A Fuck About Us
The longest skateboard video title ever? Maybe not anymore thanks to Pontus but it definitely stood out in 2003 as a lot of the big ones from that era (Sorry, Menikmati, Mosaic…) were just one word. It’s always been source of speculation so we thought we’d settle it once and for all. Here’s Franck’s interpretation of it: ‘Before that video a lot of us had this feeling that even if we did trips and put stuff out, the American industry didn’t give a fuck about us. Unless you were living in California, you could skate as hard as you wanted: you weren’t be getting sponsored by an American company. But it also had a second meaning, which was “they don’t give a fuck about (the) US”. As in: the guys in the video don’t give a fuck about the American industry anymore. We were also all listening to a lot of Tupac at the time and getting kicked out of spots in Cali then jumping into the van and blasting that Tupac song kind of cemented it.’
It was also the very first video that Sebastien ‘Paco’ Raban (who filmed it and edited it with Thomas Paulin) worked on. Before that he’d been on just one skate trip… Yet to this day it’s considered (by him and pretty much everyone else) his masterpiece. ‘That video is still what people remember me for in skating,’ admitted Paco. ‘I’ve been filming for Vans for ten years but the only thing people seem to care about me having on my CV is my first video, ha ha. Last year I met a kid in Israel, who was basically as old as the video, that told me he started skating because one of his friends showed it to him. I’m still amazed at how much it got around…’
Flo Marfaing, backside 180 switch frontside crook, Barcelona, 2004. Ph: Sébastien Michelini.
The music Lordz used is something else I’d always been quite curious about. I think I can safely say that making tracks specifically for a skate video rarely works out but in this case, having a soundtrack that still doesn’t exist anywhere (without the skate noises) apart from Paco’s computer seems to only have added to the myth. Here’s what Paco had to say about it: ‘I always envied people that got to do videos for Cliché, as for a long time they opted for not worrying about music rights and using anything they wanted. Think about Guy Mariano and Michael Jackson: it’s combos like that that make legendary parts. It’s a lot harder to achieve that if you have one without the other. We went for the complete opposite approach and got music custom made for it by Kool Shen (of NTM) and the dudes that make the beats for IV My People (Madizm and Sec.Undo). Everyone gave them songs they would have liked to skate to if they could skate to anything and we got those guys to work towards something that would incorporate some elements from those songs. We were stoked with what they came back with at the time… Obviously they aren’t songs you’ll start dancing to after hearing the first five seconds but I think it worked well.’ And he’s right, it did work well. It reinforced this feeling that they didn’t care about what the rest of the industry would think. Having a Flo Marfaing part to Kool Shen, in which he raps about Flo’s skating should have felt corny, but somehow instead it felt brave. So we asked Flo for his take on it: ‘I’d sometimes hear certain visiting Americans say stuff like “some little French guy will probably do it (talking about a certain trick) but nobody will ever hear about it” when they’d be shown spots. I wouldn’t say I took it personally but repeatedly hearing stuff like that kind of made me want to go extra hard for this video. Skateboarding is our whole life, just like it’s theirs, why would it be any different? Why would we not count? Yeah I guess a part of me wanted to shut them up. And with this video we were able to do so in a way that truly reflected what we were about you know? All the dudes that made the songs are people we hung out with. They didn’t skate but they were into what we were doing. We wanted to represent.’
Flo Marfaing, frontside nollie 180 to fakie nosegrind, Paris, 2002. Ph: Sébastien Michelini.
Flo
When asked about Flo Marfaing, every single person I spoke to about
TDGAFAU
agreed on one thing: that he was the driving force behind the video. Everything he did at Le Dome went down over one month during the summer of 2001 and it’s seeing all that footage and what the project was turning into that transformed the video’s progression. Which makes sense, if you were going to be in a video with someone kickflipping out of a tailslide on 16-stair kinked hubba; you’d probably feel an urgency to step your game up. Here’s, according to Paco, how it all went down that month: ‘I’d say we spent about two thirds of it at Le Dome but we’d always show up at the spot stupidly late. Like that crazy line with both hubbas and the switch inward heel down the double set, he had to do
it twice because the first time he’d done it at night and his hand touched the floor when he landed the last trick.’ Let’s take a second to let that one sink in… He’d just survived sliding down TWO 15+ stair hubbas and one of the hardest tricks ever done down that slippery double set, at night, but still decided to redo it because his hand gently caressed the floor at one point? Keep in mind that it’s VX footage and practically too dark to even make out that hand touching. Most pros would have taken that one and quit hucking forever, basking in its glory for the rest of their lives.
What I find the most fascinating though is probably still the way he approached trying stuff there. ‘He’d skate the spot non-stop, all day and every now and then would mess around with stuff on the hubba,’ explained Paco. ‘If he’d stay “messing around” up there for a bit longer than usual that’s when I’d get closer and maybe get the camera out. To give you an idea, this one time I was filming something, I took a break to smoke a ciggy at the bottom of the stairs and at one point I looked up and saw Flo backtail like a metre of the hubba then run down it. I instantly ran up like “fuck, do you want me to film it?” But he replied “nah finish your cigarette, I’m just looking at stuff…”’
That being said, this very contagious motivation wasn’t the only reason he became the mascot during those years. His positivity and almost child-like insouciance were also (and still are) a huge source of entertainment. From all the Flo stories that were shared with me, this one from TM Benoit Copin is probably my favourite: ‘My job felt a lot like babysitting back then, which is probably linked to how much weed they all smoked. I remember this one time leaving Barca, Flo got these weed seeds that he decided he absolutely had to bring home. So when we got to the French border he figured that the best thing to do to get them through was to hide them inside his ears. Only he hid them so deep in there that they got stuck and the first thing we had to when we were back in the country was to go to the doctor’s because he suddenly realised he couldn’t get them out! He was really pranging…’
Flo Marfaing, switch backside heelflip, Barcelona, 2004. Ph: Sébastien Michelini.
Barcelona
TDGAFAU
played a huge part in putting Barcelona on the map. We’re not going to claim the Catalan capital wasn’t in skate videos before that but they’re definitely one of the first crews of out-of-towners to really explore every corner of the city (despite the obvious appeal of its main plazas). ‘To give you an idea, when me and Bastien went to Fondo for
the first time, we took the plastic off the benches,’ recalled Paco. ‘We just thought we’d see what was all the way at the end of one of the metro lines and we stumbled across that!
You can imagine our disbelief…’. This feeling that there was a new El Dorado of granite and marble, full of spots that had only just been christened by the guys you were watching, is for many one of the reasons that the video had the impact it did.
At the same time, this first wave of hype around Barcelona, with all these American teams starting to come over, also heavily contributed to some of these guys getting noticed. This anecdote from Paco sums it up pretty well: ‘When we were in Barca a bunch of the Habitat dudes were also there and they’d sometimes hang out at ours. This one time Tim O’Connor came over with a few others and we showed him some of the stuff we’d been getting… And he went mental. I know he likes putting on a bit of a show but he genuinely went nuts. He kept going: “This is the future, this is the future man! This isn’t even today, it’s the future!” He was hobbling because he’d killed himself repeatedly trying to ollie some spot and amongst the footage I think there was Bastien backside flipping it or something ha ha. We were skating all the same spots so it was funny. And they weren’t like “fuck they’ve taken us out here”, they were just tripping!’
Stéphane Larance, kickflip, Barcelona, 2003. Ph: Sébastien Michelini.
Bastien
To this day Bastien Salabanzi remains one of the most enigmatic characters to emerge from our little bubble. There’s been a million attempts at understanding how exactly this prodigy’s brain worked and why he behaved the way he did on and off his board, but I don’t think anyone has ever been in a better position to discuss it than these guys. He got on Lordz so young that his first sets of wheels were given to him under the supervision of his mum and the crew was by his side for every step of the ride when he blew up. Even at times when some may have struggled with him, they’d all known each other for so long and had a group dynamic that was so powerful, that individual egos were squashed. Or at least when they were all together they were (but we’ll get to that later).
The first thing Paco pointed out was his initial struggle with adapting to filming with someone that consistent: ‘When I filmed with Bastien it was when he was at his absolute peak, between Sorry and Really Sorry. It was pretty difficult for me at first because the first three tries are never the ones where you film the best, you’re not sure where the skater’s popping, how high he’s going to go, whatever. But with Bastien, almost every trick he’d get would be landed in that window. So I had to adapt…. He’s one of those dudes that truly makes you realise how much of a mental thing skateboarding is. And then there’s the fact that he’s just hyperactive: his batteries were fully charged at all times.’
Beyond this technicality, I asked Paco what it was like to be on missions with him as I knew they went on quite a few just the two of them. ‘Let me put it like this: a young me would have probably loved the idea of being friends with Bastien Salabanzi more than anything but there was definitely a few times at spots when I tried to play it like I wasn’t with him ha ha. “Yeah I know it looks like we came to the spot together but it’s not what you think, ha ha… We just get the same bus.” Still unsure about what he was getting at I pressed him further: ‘Well for Bastien’s special bar to fill up he needs to be seen by people, that’s how he works. That’s why he’d do so well in comps. This means that if he’s having a good day it’s incredible to witness but if he isn’t, he’d go so mental that it would be sometimes difficult to be around.’
At the same time being the best in the world at anything usually comes with its share of madness. If it’s eyeballs that he needed to produce what he did back then, who cares: it obviously worked. That Bastien part didn’t just stand out because of the skating though, the editing and music also gave it quite a different vibe to the rest of the video. Again Paco was happy to fill me in on that: ‘Since he was kind of “the star” he got preferential treatment and I stayed with him in Barcelona to edit the section with him. What’s funny is that when we looked at everything, he very quickly started asking me who was going to have the last part. And I was honest, I told him it would be Flo because he was the one that really pushed everyone to be the best they could; he was the reason the video was what it was at that point. This led to a lot of, “What about if I do this, this and this by Monday before you leave, I’d get the last part then right?” He quickly realised I wasn’t going to change my mind ha ha, but we did try some crazy last minute stuff! I remember going to that long triple set (the one Flo fs flips) at half eight in the morning so he could try to 360 flip it before I caught my flight. In fact I remember that he woke me up that morning saying: “Man, last night when we decided to try this in the morning I was on such a hype that I decided to stay on a hype and not sleep. I played Pro Soccer Evolution all night, look look I saved some of the goals!” That should give you an idea of the constant level of energy he had, ha ha. During that period I realised that if he hadn’t been a skater, whatever he’d have chosen to be, he’d have been the best at. Even from the way he’d speak about Michael Jordan you instantly understood he had to be number one.’
Bastien Salabanzi, switch varial heelflip, Los Angeles, 2003. Ph: Oliver Barton.
LA
The first thing that needs clearing up is that when they went to America some people definitely did give a fuck about them. Not necessarily many, but the ones that did, like Julio De La Cruz (who used to run Neighborhood Skateboards) went out of their way to help them. ‘Julio really took us under his wing,’ Benoit Copin insisted. ‘I think it’s because like us he felt like a bit of an outsider in the States. In those days that scene was just so closed… Plus I think he liked our humour and you could tell he really enjoyed driving us around in his big camping van, giving us little hip-hop history tours whenever we’d go through places like Compton…’
Franck also added that Julio being their guide and them being so used to having the option of sessioning plazas all day meant that they skated LA quite differently to the locals: ‘What’s funny is that when we went to California we skated it like Europeans. At the time people over there would mainly skate on the weekends in schools or in the evenings with generators, but that’s something we never did. We were trying to skate all day every day and inevitably realised how much harder it was to do over there because they didn’t really have many spots where you could do that. Basically it just reinforced the idea that it was ten times better for skating at home!’
‘Also Julio De La Cruz being Julio De La Cruz, he’d take us to the gnarliest parts of eastside LA…’ Franck reminisced. ‘We skated all these spots that nobody from over there would go to because they were scared. I remember at the time we’d all rock these little gold chains and he’d always be like “don’t worry this spot’s fine, just take off anything shiny you might be wearing…” Super reassuring, ha ha.’
Franck Barattiero, nollie nosegrind, Toulouse, 2003. Ph: Sébastien Michelini.
William Phan
William Phan is another name that comes loaded with mystery… Although he technically skated for Square (Lordz’s sister company) he’s probably one of the
TDGAFAU
standouts
whose disappearance is asked about the most.
On the one hand it’s pretty obvious that he had the gift, with flatground abilities arguably still unmatched to this day, on the other it always felt like it came so easy for him, was so little of a challenge, that he didn’t seem that bothered about it. Paco, having pretty much filmed every bit of skateboarding he’s ever put out, was in a pretty good position to enlighten us:
‘It’s crazy that William, as talented as he was, never filmed a proper full part… And you know why? Because he was so damn lazy ha ha. All he had to do was a kickflip on flat and people’s minds would be blown. And he kind of knew this… The typical scenario was this: he’d do a couple of flatground flip shifties at MACBA, an American team manager would walk over, tell him “we want to hook you up, we’ll send you some stuff, just send us some footage”. He’d get boards for six months and wouldn’t send any footage… At that point they’d either give up on him or send him to America so he could get clips out there. Only getting clips in America is hard, especially if you’re William, so usually it would end there. But in the meantime someone from another brand saw him do a kickflip at MACBA… And so on. And that happened with like five brands.’
I guess that explains why he didn’t blow up in the way some people wish he did, but he still lives in Barca, why is it that he’s not even sporadically spotted at MACBA floating those waist high kickflips? If skateboarding was that easy, you’d think it would be too fun to just drop? The Lordz TM’s theory is that he got way too deep into 50 Cent and smoking weed, but again I think Paco’s account is probably the closest we’ll get to actually finding out what happened. He explained to me that William’s last big shot was a Seek mission in Barcelona where they’d rented an apartment for a couple of weeks to get footage. He was rooming with Josh Kalis who had already told everyone how hyped he was on his skating, all he had to do was be the legend that he is, do a few tricks and it was a done deal. Only five days in he met a girl, stayed locked up with her (in this room he was supposed to be sharing with Kalis), didn’t come skating once and that was that.
Some might see this as a waste of talent (and maybe it is) but I’m a fervent defender of ‘less is more’ and at least this guy quit while he was ahead. There probably wouldn’t be the same fascination around his skating if there was an endless amount of William Phan footage for us to draw inspiration from. I’m also convinced that the six minutes (at most) of bouncy skateboarding he put out over his short-lived career are still a greater contribution to our culture than 90% of what gets posted on the Internet today.
William Phan, kickflip shifty, Paris, 2005. Ph: Ben Colen.
Carolino
Alex Carolino was part of the first generation of Brazilians to come over to Europe every summer for the World Cup comps, which is where Flo Marfaing and some of the other guys met him for the first time. After footage of him started popping up in a few Puzzles some of the team riders basically got together and told the owner ‘we need this guy’, convincing him to fly Alex over for a trip. What I’m sure felt like
a bit of a gamble at the time most definitely paid off.
‘The first trip we took him on he barely spoke English…’ Franck recalled. ‘He was skating some really fucked up Brazilian boards. I remember thinking “do these even have seven plies?” They were so heavy, sounded like cardboard, always delamned… But every time he stepped on them he had twice as much pop as us… He was just so talented; you could instantly see it. And you could tell he’d learnt to skate on terrible spots and with terrible gear, so when we put him on perfect Spanish plazas it was paradise for him. It was as if everything was suddenly way too easy. And it just clicked, he was straight away really cool to hang out with.’
Alex Carolino, switch crooked grind, Paris, 2005. Ph: Alberto Polo.
The downfall
Long story short, after the second video that, as mentioned previously, cost a huge amount of money, they were unable to follow through with the product. They invested loads into Aeon (their shoe brand) but containers full of shoes got stuck at the border because they were struggling to pay import taxes that had shot up because of a change in tariffs. Shops were left without anything from their brands for ages at the most crucial point and it hit them hard. To make up for their losses, they began to cut corners, making cheaper (and inevitably worse) products, which lead to shops complaining. Then the recession hit and shops started closing with unpaid invoices… On top of all this, tensions mounted around a drunken fight involving a friend of some of the skaters and the owner, who was left with a huge scar across the side of his face. Then, not long after, Benoit Copin, the TM that helped make the brand what it was and who also was an integral part of the crew was fired. Shortly after that Lordz was done.
JB Gillet, backside 180 fakie nosegrind, Helsinki, 2003. Ph: Alberto Polo.
Where are they now?
Given how it all ended and how much energy they put into making Lordz what it was, the demise definitely came with its fair share of frustration, but looking back on it now, everyone I’ve spoken to regards that era as some of the best years of their lives. They are all still really good friends and a lot of them hang out regularly despite their lives often taking very different trajectories when it all ended. JB, almost 20 years after he got on Deca, is about to once again turn pro for a major American company. Luypa can still be seen flying around MACBA most days, flip tricks as razor sharp as ever. Stéphane and Franck have both started families. William lived happily ever after with the girl we mentioned earlier and spends all of his free time making hip-hop beats. Flo is now 40 and hasn’t changed one bit. He recently big spin heelflipped out of a noseslide on the same kinked hubba he nollie crooked grinded 18 years ago. Nobody was available to film him that day so he skated it alone, setting up his iPad on the floor to capture it.
Today nobody feels the need to conform to American standards and it’s easy to see the influence brands like Palace, Polar or Sour have on our culture at a global level. The pointless distinction that for years existed between the ‘Euro team’ and the ‘US team’ is almost finally eradicated and companies are at last encouraging their riders to film at home (read Jacopo’s interview) rather than flying them to Cali to be judged on their spots. You can have a part in an all-Norwegian scene video, that’s edited solely to Norwegian music; if it’s banging it’ll get the worldwide exposure it deserves. The industry finally gives a fuck about skateboarding regardless of where it comes from; let’s just not forget that it’s in part thanks to these guys paving the way for us.
Flo Marfaing and Alex Carolino, 2005. Ph: Paco.
Special thanks to Franck, Paco, Flo, Luypa, Porky, Spoon, Nao, Leo and everyone that helped make this article possible, but also Bapt Mysor, Henning Braaten, Alexis Jauzion, Thibaud Fradin and all the people that despite massively contributing to the brand’s magic, we weren’t able to fit in these pages.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  January 11, 2017
Joe Gavin Interview + Remix part
Joe Gavin. Ph. Sam Ashley
When we started
Free
a year ago Joe Gavin’s name was at the top of the list of skaters we wanted to feature. In fact, we’ve been yearning to interview Joe for ages even when we worked for that other mag (I won’t mention the name, but they don’t print mags anymore). If there’s any skater from the UK that deserves some shine then it has to be Joe Gavin. Everyone in the UK knows who Joe is, he’s been ripping for ages, he’s constantly putting out footage (a few years ago I think he had like four parts come out in a year!), he also films and edits, paints and Joe truly represents Manchester to the fullest. But due to scheduling difficulties, Joe’s injury, rainy weather, starting a new magazine and so on it wasn’t possible to do this interview until now. So I was pretty excited to say the least when I met up with Joe to do this interview on a hungover morning after the London
Away Days
premiere. Over coffees and a greasy fry-up somehow the stars finally aligned and I got to interview my mate from up north.
Interview by Will Harmon
Joe we wanted to interview you a year ago when we first started
Free
, but we had to push it back until now. Can you tell the readers out there why?
Yeah well Sam (Ashley) was meant to come up (to Manchester), but the day he was meant to come up, he couldn’t make it and I fucking stuck on a nosegrind at Urbis and broke my arm and my wrist pretty bad. And I was meant to be going to Thailand on the Monday with my girlfriend, but I couldn’t go because I needed an operation. Since then it’s kind of knocked my confidence a bit.
Is this the first major injury you’ve had?
Well I did my knee in about ten years ago, but since then I’ve been so lucky. It’s my left arm as well so it’s the arm I always fall on you know what I mean? And I couldn’t straighten it and it was pretty fucked to be honest. So since then I’ve just been trying to get strong and get back on it.
And hasn’t Woody (Gary Woodward) given you physio tips?
Yeah Woody was amazing. I just worked when I couldn’t skate so Woody would just drop by the shop (Note) and we’d do physio for 20 minutes. He’d pull my arm into crazy positions and he’d give me weights and he kind of saw it as a little project in a way. He’s helping out all the skaters in Manchester.
Yeah I heard that.
You can’t really ask for a better person you know?
Yeah well he knows skateboarding…
And he knows injuries too!
So how about Nev (Mathew Nevitt)
showing up Noel Gallagher
a couple weeks ago… Were you at Note that day?
No I wasn’t, but that was fucking cool wasn’t it?
Nollie shifty, Barnsley. Ph. Reece Leung
Yeah! Had you guys seen him about before?
Nah, I’ve never seen him. But that was my mate Kev (Eley) who works with Nev, and he was just like: ‘ah you gotta do it!’ So they saw him go into the shop across the road and they knew he talked all this shit on skaters and Nev’s got 360 flips on lock so it was just like: ‘go for it!’ It could have gone just as bad I reckon… He could have primo-ed or something.
But then the clip probably would have never gotten out there and gone viral…
Kev would have posted it either way actually. That was cool man. Nev still gets people coming in everyday asking about it.
OK here’s a topic: Sean Lomax and his hard drives… Expand on this:
Ah quite often you’ll film a trick and sometimes… Ah I shouldn’t even say this man! Well he’s lost a few tricks for sure. He’s so on it, don’t get me wrong, but I dunno he just has bad luck. His shit will get stolen or his super-tech hard drive that he’s bought with a million terabytes or whatever will just die.
Wallie crooks in the snow, Manchester. Ph. Sean Lomax
I remember when his laptop got stolen in Sarajevo he said the reason he didn’t back up the footage is because you had his extra hard drive at the time.
That sounds about right. You know what the worst thing is, it’s only happened two or three times, but people always try and be really thoughtful and ask him about his computer and stuff but really they are just thinking about that backtail they filmed! (Laughs) Like ‘really, really sorry to heard about your hard drive… What happened to that backtail we filmed?’ But yeah some of the photos we shot for this, he thought he’d lost them.
But he recovered them?
Yeah, I think he had backed them up this time.
So not just footage…
Yeah photos get lost as well! I don’t want to make this into a big topic… This doesn’t happen all the time.
Nollie backside tail, London. Ph. Sam Ashley
You’ve recently taken the reins at Landscape Skateboards doing the social media, marketing, etc. How did this come about?
Fos just asked me to be team manager and help out a bit more. It’s been cool, I think Snowy (Daniel Kinloch) got a bit busy and they needed someone that was a bit more keen for it. Yeah I enjoy it man.
I’ve said it before, and I’m not the only one, but many consider you to be the hardest working man in UK skateboarding. You are constantly out getting footage and when you are not skating you are filming others, plus you do skate edits, music videos, you work at Note, plus the Landscape marketing… How do you fit it all in?
I don’t! I guess I’m pretty lucky in regards to that I get a bit of money from skating so I don’t have to work as much as other people. I can work at the shop just two days and it’s OK, but also I can’t skate hard and film all week. I can skate for like three days, film some shit, then I’m sore, but I’ll still go out skating and bring my camera to film others. I just enjoy it. I love it, but there’s just not enough time in the day man!
Switch ollie, Manchester. Ph. Reece Leung
In addition to Landscape, I remember you doing a lot with The Harmony doing edits, promoting, organising trips, etc… Have you ever thought of just starting your own brand instead of doing all this work for companies that aren’t yours?
I have thought about it, but I actually think the market is flooded and no new companies need to start. We already have a lot of skate companies. What I really do believe is that people need to look after the companies we’ve already got… Companies that have put a lot into UK skateboarding; companies that have built up skaters and put out videos, make people pro and pay people… They’re the people that need support, not necessarily this new cool company that’s about for a couple weeks… It just makes it harder for the other companies that are really trying to do something proper and have been for years. It’s like right now I would rather put all my effort into Landscape and try to help it. If maybe that doesn’t work then I could maybe think about that. But it’s the same with The Harmony, I feel the same: why start a new company? The Harmony is rad! Let’s just try and make it the best it can be. And I’m not saying as well… People sort of expect so much now from companies because of things like Palace or whatever…
Palace is a bit of an anomaly though…
Yeah, it’s crazy. I just want it to be a skate company that does stuff proper. But you know before all that (Palace) skate companies put out your boards or whatever, maybe they have a couple or three pros that get paid and it’s all proper. Now there’s just too many (companies).
Switch crooked grind, Manchester. Ph. Sam Ashley
Yeah it’s a lot harder for people to sell boards when there are so many options.
Yeah and I’m not gonna lie my company would just be another one of them. You know what I mean?
Yeah. So what keeps you in Manchester? Have you ever had the urge to move to London like so many of this island’s other skateboarders?
It was on the cards a few years ago, I was gonna, but it never really happened. I’ve never really been too keen to be honest. I actually really enjoy just coming to London to chill for the weekend and that seems more manageable for me. I think it would get to me if I lived here. London’s totally different than Manchester. I’m just a Manchester lad: I got my friends and stuff there… I just like it. Born in the North – die in the North! (Laughs)
Can you tell us a little bit about Urbis? How important do you think it is for a scene to have a free skate-able space like Urbis that isn’t a skatepark?
I think it’s massively important. For my generation, I grew up skating a street spot. I could do switch heels before I could drop in. It’s really important for that type of skating… If you just got a ledge and a manual pad in front of you, you are going to grow up skating manny pads and ledges. It’s always going to progress that side of skating. If you grow up skating transition, but you live in the city, it doesn’t really make sense in a way. You only have that one skatepark to go to. Just learn how to skate everything in your city. I guess Urbis or places like it gives kids a place to chill and hangout.
Switch nose grind revert, Salford. Ph. Sean Lomax
Yeah I’ve always preferred hanging out at a spot rather than a skatepark. There’s more interaction at a street spot and I think that’s healthy in growing up.
Yeah definitely. It teaches kids so much more than a skatepark could ever do — just about being streetwise and looking after yourself and your friends as well.
Do you ever find yourself at Urbis or somewhere similar kind of telling kids to be careful and not hit people’s ankles with their boards?
Yeah I’ve definitely given the helping hand. When you’re a little kid you don’t know… You are just charging or whatever so you need the older skaters to guide you or chaperone in a way.
Dom Henry said to ask you about what is the ethos of the Vibeseekers gang?
Nice, yeah Dom! The ethos is seeking the vibe – just seek it out! If it’s raining, it’s the worst day ever, but you have one dude that’s keen to skate, just get on the bikes and make it happen. Whatever happens you know what I mean? Mainly Vibeseekers is about finding really bad skateparks all around the little towns in Manchester and skating them all. There are loads of shit little council parks and we just ride our bikes to them like we are in The Goonies or something. I’m making a little video soon. It’ll be our third video.
Switch wallie, Salford. Ph. Sam Ashley
What are your other interests outside of skateboarding? Aren’t you into Graffiti?
Yeah yeah… Well no, not at all! I do a lot of painting, but mainly when I’m hurt. My friends that paint always say ‘Joe only paints when he’s rolled his ankle!’ (Laughs)
You’ve bridged the gap between many different generations of Manchester skateboarding scenes. How have you seen the Manchester scene change and grow over the years?
Ah man it’s just so positive now. It was a different place when I was younger; it was way more gnarly. But right now it is so rad… Honestly I can’t say enough. All like Keanu (Robson), Leo (McDonald), Jacob (Johnson), Jay (Stone) and Sam (Bottenberg) and stuff are just the raddest dudes. They got their own zines, they are making videos, they are going all around the country, and they’re welcoming people…
And do you think you have inspired some of the younger guys?
Maybe, I dunno. I guess. It’s not just me; it’s other people. It’s a pretty productive place Manchester.
Yeah why do you think that is? There is so much coming out of there (Manchester)?
I reckon because it’s smaller so we are all kind of together. There’s no beef; everyone is all good man. People are constantly working on something. It’s funny because it’s the rainiest town in England, it’s constantly wet, but recently I’ve just given up on giving up. I just go skating. ‘Rain or shine I’ll see you at the spot.’ And we get there and it’s wet as fuck, but we go and find some shit. That’s what I’m saying, Vibeseekers man! Nine times out of ten it’ll dry up and you could have just been sat at home staring out the window.
Switch backside tailslide. Ph. Reece Leung
That’s a good attitude to have.
Yeah you have to just go for it. But sometimes people are like: ‘Are you fucking mad?’
So what’s next for Joe Gavin?
Working on the Landscape video, just trying to do some stuff with that…
And have you helped film that?
Sean (Lomax) has been helping us, some guys in London… Henry (Edwards-Wood) has been helping. It’s a bit of a mixed bag, but yeah, it’s the only logistical way of doing it. We are like a working lads club. Everyone has to work so it’s a group effort really to make it happen. I’ve kind of taken a step back from filming myself. I just want to really make the most of skating. Since breaking my arm and shit it’s made me realise that I just love it so much. And when it’s taken away you really just want to do it. I just need to make the most of it.
Anyone you want to thank?
Thanks to Carhartt WIP, Nike SB, Landscape Skateboards, Hélas, Spitfire and Thunder, Laura my girlfriend, Splodge, and Fos. Also thanks to Reece, Sam and Sean for shooting photos and all the crew! Vibeseekers!
Switch backside 180 5-0, London. Ph. Sam Ashley

================================================================================

BY Will  •  January 25, 2017
Casper Brooker Interview
Casper Brooker, Southbank, 2016. Ph. Sam Ashley
Casper Brooker is a young man of many talents (skateboarding, trou…) but there’s one activity he particularly excels at: pinting. This means that although he’s relatively shy, getting him to open up and give an insightful interview was a lot easier than expected. All we had to do was find an environment in which he felt safe (Wetherspoon’s), surround him with people he loves and trusts (fellow pint sinkers), and it was only a matter of time (lagers) before he started sharing some his most exciting tales of success (often involving urine) – a true inspiration for generations to come. –
Arthur Derrien
Interview by Jacob Harris with Arthur Derrien and Kyron Davis
Arthur Derrien: Casper, maybe just start by talking about Southbank and growing
up skating there…
Jacob Harris: How old were you when
you first went there?
Casper Brooker: I first went there when I was twelve I think. It was like an Emerica Wild in the Streets thing, and I was only allowed to go because all the older people from my local skatepark who were allowed to go to London on their own were going, so I was allowed to go with them. I thought ‘oh my god this is so sick’, I’d seen it on Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 4, and I was just so stoked I was like ‘oh that’s the 7 set!’ I remember I tre-flipped the 7 into a bank and won a pair of Emericas and then I just skated around for hours non-stop.
JH: How long had you been skating for?
I’ve been skating since I was eight.
Kyron Davis: We’ve been skating for about the same amount of time.
Yeah because we used to go to Bay together didn’t we?
KD: Yeah I started when I was seven and you’re a year older than me.
JH: You two are from a slightly different generation of PlayStation skaters, from like me, Tom (Knox) and Daryl (Dominguez).
KD: I remember seeing you one time like, do you remember the handrail, and like me and you were just hyping ourselves to jump on it and I was like ‘fuck skating it,’ you tried to do a crook but you fully sacked yourself and barrel rolled? That was one of the first times I saw somebody in real life, like take a proper slam.
I remember that clearly; I remember what shoes I was wearing. My feet were really far off the floor; I was tiny then.
AD: Back to Southbank I guess… How often do you still skate it?
Well now I don’t really like it that much but I still go there quite a bit. The scene down there has kind of changed – there’s always been like little rude boys there selling weed and stuff but this whole generation who started skating there, have just kind of cool guyed it, they’re all nice enough but they’re just not so into skating – there aren’t so many people there skating every day.
It used to be that I’d finish school on a Friday, I wouldn’t have to text anyone, I’d go down and there used to be loads of people there skating or sat by the river. The Friday night sessions would be amazing – I was too young to go to the pub so I’d just go to (Jack) Brooks’ house and eat sweets then go back at ten the next morning. But yeah I don’t skate there as much but I do enjoy it when I go there.
AD: Trou. Who’s been killing it on the trou front this year?
Do you actually want to know about trou? Funny how this has become a thing… Nik Stain’s got the steeziest trou. Well it all started from when I wore those skin-tight jeans. It became like an obsession: I wanted my jeans to be the tightest – I’d go with my mum to Topshop when I was really young and try and get really particular ones and cut them and sew the bottom up. It started from that. A little bit later on my legs were getting way too big for the really tight trousers. Then Leo Romero became my favourite skater so I’d try to get the same Levi’s he had – but I didn’t have the same leg shape so I’d lose my shit wanting my jeans to look like his… Then I got a bit over trying to dress like Andrew Reynolds and Leo Romero and saw everybody around Slam wearing Dickies and stuff like that, and then I looked at old Heath Kirchart footage and thought those trou are the best…
Backside smith grind, Manhattan. Ph. Alex Pires
AD: And then they got wider and wider until…
Yeah now I can’t wear below 36 /34 and I put them on and think ‘do I want these any bigger?’ Then I look in the mirror and already look ridiculous. It’s a big obsession. Almost like an illness. Not that my trousers are especially amazing, just you know, I have to have three pairs of this certain colour so I can have them for this amount of time and if I get over them I can keep a pair and put them back…
JH: Recently you’ve been using trousers as a way to commit to tricks…
AD: What like ‘I need to get a clip in these trou’?
No, no, just like when it’s hard to get certain trousers and they’re quite expensive I don’t want to fall over and rip them straight away so I have to commit. The trou thing is a deep-rooted problem that will never go away.
KD: I didn’t realise how deep it is for you.
JH: Yeah I’ve had to bring out spare pairs of trousers when I’ve come to meet him filming. I would place you in the sort of broad category of quite neurotic skateboarders.
Oh yeah for sure.
Ollie, Clerkenwell. Ph. Sam Ashley
JH: What other sort of rituals do you have around filming, or just skating in general?
When filming I definitely lose my minda little bit – I talk, chatter to myself and make a lot of false bets that nobody is going to follow through on. The other day I was trying something over a road gap and I couldn’t quite get my head around it; I was flipping the board up with my feet, trying to catch the board, not really doing it, tapping my board on four flowerpots and counting to four in Spanish: ‘uno, dos, tres, quatro’ then as I came around the corner I would scream.
KD: It makes sense though. If you have a little ritual it can help.
Yeah if I do the ritual once then it becomes what’s going to get me through and I can’t change it – it’s like if I’m trying a trick I can’t take my beanie off halfway through or I might not land it because something has changed… Definitely in that category.
Gap to nosebluntslide, SOAS. Ph. Sam Ashley
AD: On the topic of you being a neurotic skateboarder, what also happens is that you are so absorbed that sometimes you let stuff you wouldn’t normally say slip. Can you tell us about the tre-flip over the handrail story?
Yeah that was really bad; I’m not exactly proud of that.
KD: Didn’t you call the geezer a cunt?
Yeah… There was a motorcycle that’s always there so we moved it a bit. So the guy who owns it comes back he was working on the construction site next to the spot, and he’s obviously a bit…
JH: He was a big fucker!
He’s like this massive Irish guy and has a wonky eye and scars on his head. Looks mental. And he obviously knows what we’ve done isn’t that bad, that we’ve done it out of courtesy not to hit is bike, but he just says ‘OK. Have a good day. Just leave please. Now.’ At this point he’s obviously holding in his fury and having a hard time doing it, you could tell he was about to burst. I was pissed off because I just wanted to do it – we walked past him leaving and he was on his phone just like ‘blah blah blah skateboarders’ and I just let slip ‘ah you cunt’ and then as soon as it left my mouth I was like ‘oh my god’ he stood right up and went for me and there were six or seven of us but nobody was going to stick up for me because I’d been the worst guy ever. So I just had to stick my arm up and apologise loads like ‘sorry sorry sorry!’ It was just me being fifteen again; it was embarrassing and a big mistake. A real shame.
Ollie up, frontside shuv-it, Southwark. Ph. Sam Ashley
JH: That guy didn’t want blood, but wouldn’t have been able to help himself.
AD: I think you’re probably not the only neurotic person on the Isle team…
Going on an Isle trip is definitely an experience that I don’t think many people would really understand… When we’re all together we all egg each other on. Nick: massive tweaker really over-thinking everything and going from super quiet and withdrawn to hyperactive and Chris, who doesn’t stop talking and knows he doesn’t stop talking and drives you mad. Tom, with coffee crust around his mouth, who nobody can understand ‘cause he’s just babbling and Sylvain, who seems the most balanced in the whole situation, but I’ve seen him like in Barcelona when people were throwing eggs at us while he was trying a trick and he lost his shit running around making ape noises screaming at them in quite a serious way. Jon’s the only one on the team who can smoke weed and not have a mental breakdown. It’s just an odd bunch of people who get put in a van together.
JH: Since we’re on the topic of neuroses tell us about night terrors.
I started getting night terrors when I was quite young. It usually occurs with kids from 7–12 when your body is growing and you’re not rested enough and you get stuck in a certain stage of sleep but I got it quite late. It actually happened once when I was sharing a room with Kyron (Davis) in Berlin during a summer Bright trade show (loads of booze and stuff).
KD: Oh shit yeah!
I’d come home early that night and Kyron walked in and I’m coming to from a night terror screaming at him, eyes blank and screaming, I come to and I’m so terrified.
KD: It’s like you were trying to fight someone. You were kicking your legs, the covers were off, everything was off; you were just flailing.
You just burst out laughing.
Kickflip, Nablus, Palestine. Ph. Sam Ashley
KD: I just panicked because I was so shocked at the situation. Also yeah I did find it pretty funny.
I think the situation you want me to talk about (Jake) is at my ex-girlfriend’s house where I half had a night terror and then started sleepwalking. I was slapping her head a bit and started grunting, and sort of got up and was screaming a little bit – I was completely naked bumping into walls and getting angrier and angrier and then I went upstairs and pulled all these different coloured cloths and towels and made a den and was screaming while doing it – I’d pulled plants from the other side of the room, got these pig book holders that I had to get on my tiptoes to get and put them as what I would have thought would be guards to the den? I have no recollection of it, but I can definitely manoeuvre a lot when it happens.
KD: What did she do?
She locked herself in the bathroom. I woke up just completely naked shivering in my ‘den’. She was fuming with me but then found it quite funny that I had no idea what had been going on. It was quite funny, there was a lot of order to what I’d made.
JH: Have you done any sleepwalks recently?
Yeah, well if you don’t laugh you’ll cry. I went out with Arthur, Chris Jones and some other people in Peckham. I took myself home because I was a bit pissed, it wasn’t that late but at about six in the morning I came to as the sun was rising and I had my arm on the bed and my legs diagonally across the bed and was holding myself up… and I was urinating on my laptop. I’d rather not talk about it in an interview, but at the same time I’m not embarrassed because I have no control over things like that and I know some of the other things my friends have done… I have a friend that pissed on his wife’s phone a few times. Not just once, a few times.
Ollie the first gap, impossible the second, Tate Britain. Ph. Sam Ashley
KD: I pissed myself in Scotland the other month.
I did it in Paris!
KD: Haha oh yeah, the best story! Me and you were in the room and you were like ‘shall I wear the white trousers or the black trousers?’ And I was like ‘obviously you’ve brought the white trousers for a reason, wear the white trousers’. We get back and it’s like me, Vaughan…
Korahn was in there because he’d nicked my charger, Jacopo…
KD: You were just in there sat there with the covers off just laying on your back and Korahn was just like ‘hey look at Casper!’ and we could just see it (the pee) spreading there down your legs, haha. I was so happy I got you to wear the white trousers!
It’s not me being a wasteman though! My brother does sleep things all the time. I told my dad about the night activities and he just said ‘that’s not the worst thing you’ll do, it’ll get worse with age’.
JH: Growing up in London there’s a lot of famous skaters about, who did you used to look up to and has this changed?
When I first started coming to London and Southbank when I was twelve I met Fos and he became a massive influence on me. Before that I’d watch Flip and Baker videos and then I watched Heroin videos and I was like ‘well that’s sick too!’. Then at like sixteen I got really into the Emerica thing and all I wanted to skate was handrails like Leo Romero and Heath Kirchart and I didn’t really take any notice of British skating. Then, at seventeen I’d go out with Holdtight (Henry Edwards-Wood), Snowy, Joey, Nick and Chewy and stuff and I re-watched
Lost and Found
and was like ‘this is great.’ When you’re younger you just want to watch Geoff Rowley hit his face on the floor then get up and do the trick. Then a bit later you appreciate Scott Palmer skating Hull in an England Rugby top. I started to appreciate seeing Chewy (Cannon) skate Southbank or seeing Nick do that nollie-cab grind at St. Paul’s. When I saw it I was like ‘OK I’ve never even thought of doing a nollie-halfcab on flat before.’
Backside 50-50 transfer, Bermondsey. Ph. Sam Ashley
JH: What was behind the transition from Heroin and Emerica to Isle and Nike? Rumour has it Reynolds was really psyched on you…
I love Fos forever; he was such a big part of my life and is a sick dude, but I was getting to an age where I didn’t want to wear a monster on my t-shirt. I just grew out of it; you change all the time.
With Emerica, just after that 2013 UK tour with Oscar (Candon) and (Tom) Knox and Rob (Maatman)…
AD: You did that noseblunt!
KD: Everybody was talking about that noseblunt at Mile End! ‘He slid the whole thing and then grinded round the corner!’
At the time it was like the best trip of my life, but looking back it was kind of the American guys, then us guys… And they were so nice to us but you know… I’d quit Heroin and Isle was happening and I’d had a call with Timothy from Emerica and he was so nice and he wanted me to film for this video (Editor’s note: I guess it would have been
Made
?) and I just knew I couldn’t do that; it didn’t seem natural. How I was changing it felt right just to switch everything up. Around that time also I got my first girlfriend and I hadn’t done all that stuff before plus I was working a lot and just got a bit bummed out on skating. I still loved it, but I felt kind of over it.
KD: That’s what happens though: when you get a bird your priorities just entirely switch up. You lose time and… It just happens to everybody.
Especially when you’re nineteen and it’s kind of late, you just think: ‘oh my god this girl wants to have sex with me?’ I remember Knox having a word with me…
Smith grind, Blackfriars. Ph. Sam Ashley
KD: He’s done that to me too! He’s come up to me and had a word with me like ‘Ky you’ve got to do this, that or that.’So now, when I have a question I will ask him.
What was the question again? Oh yeah, well at the time I remember Percy (Dean, former Emerica Europe TM) told me they wanted me to come to Texas and I was really hyped but I’m a skateboarder from London, I just can’t keep up with how those boys skate. It was never a money thing.
JH: Why do you top up your Oyster card £5 at a time?
I hate the travel system so much: TFL, Southern, etc., and I know it sounds so stupid and it just wastes my time, but I feel like if I put £5 on I’m giving them less money. I feel like fuck you I’m only putting this much on and I’m going to try and skate home. I am shooting myself in the foot a lot with it.
JH: You’re not from London you’re from Purley.
Purley is ten minutes away from Croydon; nobody knows where Purley is. There are three spots there: the metal mini ramp in the park, the mini ramp in my garage, and the NCP car park that is the car park for a gym. Well there’s the Tesco car park you can skate Sunday evening that (Paul) Shier used to skate.
(
Jacob goes for a cigarette
)
AD: Tell us the best and worst thing about living with the person (Jacob Harris) you’ve spent the year filming a video part with?
Well it’s not just a year, I was filming
Vase
too and I guess he’s the person I spend the most time with – one of my best friends. There have been some tensions but nothing that’s not been sorted, but never anything that big. We’re very different but both very stubborn and that can clash; I think we’ve done really well to maintain things. I fucking love Jake; he’s wicked at what he does. I find him difficult sometimes and I know he finds me difficult sometimes but what relationship doesn’t have its ups and downs?
Ollie over the rail landing on the pad, Brooklyn. Ph. Alex Pires
AD: Maybe you can talk about filming for the Isle video. I remember you had a hard time getting into it, has this new part been any different?
Well at the beginning of the Isle video I was in a weird way with my feelings about skating, but then I eventually did want to film for it. I went through almost the same thing with this part too… We started going into the summer and in the summer you feel like you’ve got all the time in the world and the pressure is low.
AD: You’ve probably had a pretty similar summer to me just going to infinite events where you don’t do so much skateboarding but a lot of drinking. Coming back from that to winter and a deadline must have been harsh…
Well you know what I do actually enjoy, especially in the past few weeks, the pressure that winter puts on you. Whether or not I’ve lived up to that pressure is another thing, but you do value the time you can skate way more in the winter. As much as it grinds me down, I do like it.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  January 13, 2017
Dave Mackey: a new approach to the skater owned shop
Dave Mackey. Ph. Sam Ashley
Real recognise real! Independent skate stores are the pillars holding up our community; worldwide they support each other, their customers, their scene and skateboarding as a whole. Why the fuck would anyone not support one? Unfortunately it’s getting increasingly harder to survive as a skater owned shop, especially without compromising legitimacy. Liverpool’s mighty Lost Art shop closed its doors after 17 years only to re-open five months later with a different approach. Dave Mackey gives us his insights into adapting, diversifying and the independent shop community’s support.
Interview by Guy Jones
Could you start off by explaining how the previous Lost Art closed and how you transitioned into opening the
Useless Wooden Toys Society
?
The reason for the old shop’s demise was firstly how expensive it was for that unit. Obviously cost of rent rates and staffing of that size is quite a lot. Another reason is this part of town. When we first moved to Bold Street, the area was a retail destination in the city, but over the last few years shops have shut down due to rent costs and more bars and restaurants have opened, making it more of a place to go after you’ve been shopping. We saw our passing trade diminish over the years. Another reason is the popularity of certain brands had gone down in recent years, due to two brands opening up to larger sportswear chains. Originally Lost Art was the only account for one of these brands to which the total went up to 17 accounts in Liverpool alone.
Did these large brands benefit the store at first?
Having Nike SB involved in particular helped keep the doors open for many years for myself and for many other stores and then we were kind of led to the drinking hole as it were. We had our egos massaged by them and we also backed their brand 100%. Once the Janoski trend hit, it was the big sports stores that really milked that and took sales away from smaller core stores who had supported Nike for a number of years. As skate stores we kind of let that happen, you can’t blame Nike for doing their business. We took our eye off what we were about for a few years. I felt for Lost Art that is, we kind of forgot a little bit about skateboarding and we were more brand led as a business. I often found myself thinking less about hardware orders and more so about footwear orders, which for a skate store is definitely not a good thing, especially a core skate store.
Do you think this is relevant for a lot of the other skate shops in Europe?
Absolutely yeah, I’ve thought about it long and hard since the store closed at the end of July. The time we have on social media to talk about what we do as skate shop is very small, you have a window throughout the day to post and inevitably you post Nike products, or big brands that you feel are going to bring in the most revenue. You very seldom talk on social media about the fucking rad things that go on within skateboarding, or the rad things you’re doing as a skate shop; you know the t-shirts, the graphics you design, the skaters who ride for your shop, etc. I feel that’s a trend through all of skateboarding in Europe, maybe even the world; we don’t have enough time to talk about the rad shit that we do, and that was the one thing I wanted to do on my social media platform once the store closed: to talk about the rad fucking stuff that goes on in British skateboarding.
Is that why you kept the Lost Art Instagram alive?
Definitely yeah, the store closed due to mounting debts and it got to a point where I physically couldn’t do it by myself, it was just me who owned Lost Art at the time and with the debts, and the constant pleading with brands to give you a bit more time to pay, or to send more products, it’s a full time job. It really is a huge burden on skate shops, as much as they try and help as brands, the people you converse with within these brands, they don’t really have a voice and once it goes above them to accounts, or to larger departments, especially legal departments, they don’t care who you are or what you’ve done for skateboarding. They just want the matter resolved quickly and often it’s a threatening message that leaves a bitter taste in your mouth after a while. As a skateboarder and as a skate shop supporting certain brands, you see these threatening messages come through. You just kind of think ‘what’s the point?’ We’re just trying to do good shit for you. I understand it’s a business but there has to be leeway sometimes.
The Useless Wooden Toys Society, Liverpool UK. Ph. Matty Lambert
In respect to revenue coming in from non-skateboarders as opposed to skaters it has to be a hard balance to achieve the core to profit ratio, considering the demographic. Skaters also often prefer to spend their money on intoxicants anyway.
It’s a really difficult road to travel being a core skate store; you can’t deviate from the core too much or you get labelled a ‘sell out’ or ridiculed for it. For instance when there was a scooter boom, I know a lot of people sold scooters. People were diversifying into other products that brought revenue in, but as a core store that sets their shop out as their vision, you can’t really deviate from that road. Often you really find it hard when it goes out of popularity and you try and maintain that sense of core, and then sometimes the core brands don’t back you at the time when you need them most. With that in mind, supporting those big brands definitely led us to not being able to support the smaller independent brands, like Soletech, Lakai and HUF, which is fucking shit. I feel as a skate store we’ve been harmful to these brands who ultimately deserve our support and that’s a really shitty thing to have on my shoulders.
There are a lot of peaks and troughs in regards to the struggle of keeping a S.O.S. (Skate owned Shop) going on, what are some of the things you’ve had to do through the tougher times? I remember you saying how you had to labour to keep the doors open?
That was around 2002/2003. I couldn’t afford to keep my friends working in the shop so I chose to go labouring every day of the week to pay Ash (Wilson) a wage, in the hope that at some point business would pick up and I could go back to work in the store. Unfortunately it didn’t work too well and I had to bring in a partner at that time to keep the shop alive and subsequently he wasn’t able to support it either. The shop had been through many formats: I had a partner with it; I sold the shop for a year then got it back. These are things you have to do sometimes to keep it going and finding work outside of skateboarding is definitely something I had to do to keep it going. The worst thing I’ve ever done is putting all of my money and my family’s money into the store. That’s another reason why I had to shut the shop: I took a loan from my parents to kind of help through Christmas last year and unfortunately all that money just disappeared paying bills and I was unable to pay them back. I still haven’t paid them back, and that’s something that’s really shit for me to deal with. I get pretty upset when I think about it, I just kept ploughing money into this thing thinking it’ll be right soon, it’ll be right. It was a fucking hard decision for me to make closing the shop. I really didn’t have an idea that it was going to come back. Keeping the Instagram account alive was just me trying to cling to that dream that Lost Art is bigger than skateboarding, bigger than just selling products. For me it’s never been about a store, it’s about the community we support and I feel we’re a very important part of the community.
Pop Shove in Almada, Portugal. Ph. Sam Ashley
So how did the new shop come about and the reasoning behind the name?
The Useless Wooden Toys Society was a video night we would do at Lost Art to get people together to watch old videos, then we’d go skating or for a beer. It was a different way of getting everybody together in the social aspect of skateboarding, which has always been hugely important to me. Going back a little bit, I had to close Lost Art as the store; Lost Art skateboarding limited was the name, so I had to liquidate it had to go into bankruptcy. Then there’s everything that goes along with that, I wasn’t able to use the name as a shop anymore, so the Useless Wooden Toys Society has been set up by my friends, Pad, Mick and my partner Kelly; they now own Useless Wooden Toys Society and have bought back Lost Art as the brand name.
Community value seems to be the most important thing to you and the relationships you build with other independents as well.
I feel that’s the community I’m talking about, the independent community we’re a part of whether it’s bars, music, coffee shops, etc., we all support one another and being a part of that is everything. Like I say the hardest thing was taking myself out of that community by closing the shop. We all help each other and I feel as an independent that’s what we should be doing. When I see American Express adverts saying shop local it just makes me laugh. American Express don’t know the first fucking thing about shopping local. Don’t even pretend: shopping local isn’t going to Sainsbury’s. Shopping local is those small stores that are owned and run by people who work and live in that community and the money stays in that community.
There’s far more help and respect within this community. I remember kids coming in with grip over the cellophane on a board from some novice and having no idea what to do. You’d help as much as you could and honestly as well.
As a skate shop you probably would have given that kid a sheet of free grip tape, you’d fix it and give them the grip for free. Or you would knock money off some shoes, give them bearings, find boards in the back that aren’t selling and sell them for cheaper. That’s what you do as skate shop. You know what it’s like as a skateboarder, it’s an expensive culture to be a part of; shoes get wrecked very quickly and as skateboarders you realise that. It’s bad for business, but it’s great for your self worth because that kid goes away absolutely fucking stoked that he or she has stumbled upon this community of like-minded people and peers that they can look up to for a number of years.
You’re unpaid social workers. I always wanted Lost Art to be like that, and thankfully it always has. It’s reached far outside of Liverpool, people respect it far and wide and that’s because it’s not just me, it’s not just those who worked at the shop, it’s everybody who talks about and has respect for the shop as part of our community. I could name about 20 shops alone in the UK that do it equally as well. There are so many stores that deserve to be there and deserve to be looked after by brands and skateboarding as a whole. I feel that isn’t happening and if those stores were to close, it would have a huge impact on the whole scene.
Is the #Wearelostart hashtag a way of further trying to unite the SOS community?
We are stronger as skate store but the hashtag was more about the reasons why I started Lost Art in 1999. I felt that the skateboarding being promoted at that time wasn’t the skateboarding I grew up loving and wanting to be a part of and that’s the reason for the name Lost Art. That type of skateboarding was almost lost to that Tony Hawk big brand generation of skateboarding that was coming in at that stage. It’s even more relevant nowadays than for the core skate shops that started between ‘98-2005; there’s not too many of those left and nothing has really replaced them and there’s a handful that need saving. We are the lost art; we are the last of the Mohicans as it were (laughs)… We’re taking one last stand. There’s no better time for skateboarding because everything is acceptable: whatever clothes you wear, whatever footwear, whatever style of board or style of skateboarding you prefer, it’s all out there. It’s all accessible now and it’s all fucking amazing. There’s so much good stuff happening skate shop owners are so bogged down by the mundane and the problems they have to deal with that they don’t get a chance to talk about all the good stuff. There’s so much negativity and bitching and that’s the one thing I hate. I feel footwear brands are a massive part of the problem and that’s why we don’t sell footwear in Useless Wooden Toys Society. We are a core skate store; we only support skateboarding. We only have skate hardware and clothing by my friends or Lost Art. Unless we collaborate with shoe brands we won’t sell them. It’s a bold move… It’s probably unchartered waters as far as a skate store is concerned – to go back to an original skate store format.
UWTS Ph. Matty Lambert
There’s also the accessibility of getting cheaper shoes elsewhere.
That was inevitably going to happen as the market got opened up to larger sportswear chains that deal in volume and numbers – they can slash the prices and move on. You can’t survive as a skate shop if large sportswear shops are selling shoes for thirty quid. Of course kids are going to buy the cheaper ones and they fucking should. I remember being that kid. I remember searching for shoes… We’d skate in any shit footwear we could find, often the cheapest because we knew we’d wear through them quickly. One thing I’ve always done and something most of the kids in Liverpool have always done, is they come and buy their fucking skateboards and hardware from the skate shop.
Well it’s what you set out to do in the first place really.
The thing I’ve always wanted to support is skateboarding and I feel we best do that by supporting hardware brands, small independent clothing brands from our friends and our Lost Art brand, which is our best seller anyway. We would always fall short of achieving our full potential because we had to use any money we had to pay off footwear orders to get another load of footwear in. It’s a vicious cycle and without a doubt a false economy.
The new store is basically everything I wanted as a skate shop as a kid. It’s going back to the original format and we’ll focus on promoting what we’re doing as well as promoting all the other rad shit other skate shops are doing because I feel we should champion them just as much we champion ourselves.
It seems like different formats have to be adopted to survive and if it benefits you and your community then why not?
There’s a lot of marketing companies that brands reach out to who don’t have a fucking clue about skateboarding and really don’t treat it with the respect it deserves and that’s fucking painful to watch. I’m sick of it. We should be partnering up with other like-minded business. There are businesses I looked at, Nick
Palomino
for instance: low overheads, a little warehouse space tucked away and incredible online presence! You go to his site and you instantly have site envy; he has everything you want to talk about and he talks about it in the best possible manner because he fucking loves skateboarding. But he doesn’t have the bullshit to deal with of having a store that’s open every day of the week, paying for staffing, bills, footwear orders, etc. He doesn’t have those issues so he’s able to survive, bat down the hatches when need be and talk about all the things we want to talk about.
But there are also stores like
Beats Workin
. It became a coffee shop skate shop, and as skate shops I feel we need to diversify a bit and partner up with other independents be it a barber’s, a tattooist, or a coffee shop. I feel those communities are the same and we’re all talking to the same people, it helps with large overheads, it brings other people into your store and keeps it fresh. I feel that’s what we should be doing: adapt and move forward. If you stay stagnant, the ten ‘til six retail mentality is so archaic you can’t possibly survive. Nobody shops ten ‘til six now, they shop online or on their lunch break, nobody walks into stores anymore so you have to give them a reason to be in your store.
I’m being very honest about this because I really do feel a lot of really good people are having real problems holding skate shops now, and we should be talking about this as a community and there needs to be discussions where we can hopefully come to a solution.
A core alliance?
Defo. As a collective we go: ‘fuck you, we’re not stocking your brand anymore.’ It’s difficult because it’s not for me to tell someone else how to run his or her business. Everyone has different problems and what might seem trivial to me might be huge to them and vice versa. We should be discussing it and with brands involved, especially those we should be supporting; core brands like Soletech, Lakai and HUF, we should all be sitting with them and talking about how to better our community of skateboarding. Big brands will survive they don’t need to be a part of this; they’ll survive whatever because they have the deep pockets to fall back on.
And now I’m being a right nobhead and not answering my buzzer for a customer to talk to you. (Laughs)
The Lost Art crew on Useless Wooden Toys Society’s opening night. Ph. Matty Lambert

================================================================================

BY Will  •  October 6, 2022
Emerica – Showtime
I arrived in Whitechapel to meet the Emerica team on the hottest day of the year, so far. The streets were awash with melted Brits, scurrying home from work, glad to have something weather related for the dinner table chat. Leo Romero was halfway through a nollie heelflip battle and had amassed some onlookers, keen to see what all the fuss was about. The crew was splayed out across the wide street: some directing bemused pedestrians, others sunning themselves on the smooth tarmac but all heavily invested in Leo’s trick, which, try by try, was becoming more of a team effort.
Within minutes of my arrival Leo was rolling away from his trick as one onlooker, overcome with emotion and feeling a part of the same team effort, chased after Leo, hugged him and whispered in his ear, ‘I knew you could do it!’ Leo is a performer but manages to do so in a matter-of-fact way that is hard not to like. It helps that he’s gifted with a distinct and more than palatable style. We found some time to chat after the post-session Turkish dinner and explored his thoughts about the role of performance, presence and permanence in the changing world of skateboarding.
Leo Romero interview by Alex Irvine
Earlier, in the restaurant, you talked about growing up in a small town. Where was it? And what was it like growing up there? Was skateboarding a big thing?
Leo Romero: The town was Fontana, California, and it wasn’t a big thing. There weren’t many skaters. You would just get made fun of and get teased and beat up or whatever for being a skater, you know?
So quite like a jock kind of mentality?
Not really, it was more gangsters, I mean, there’s jocks too. It was kind of like a ghetto. The park that I grew up next to was overrun by gangsters. In the school I went to there was just like a bunch of gangs or whatever. So, they all just picked on anyone. You know what I mean? And skaters just looked different enough. They just basically thought we looked crazy. So, it’s like, ‘yep, those guys, let’s get them.’
Leo Romero, nollie heelflip, London
Was it quite a difficult time at school then?
It wasn’t too difficult ‘cause I never really took any of that. I don’t really care about that stuff and it was kind of those things where people would talk shit. I wouldn’t ever care because it just didn’t bother me. It’s like, whatever, you’re insane. Who cares? You know what I mean?
When was that?
That’s probably like late-nineties. Yeah, like late-nineties, early two thousands, skateboarding was kind of almost on its way back up, but not super big. I’m trying to think… My first video was
Misled Youth
, so that was around that time.
Did you have a small crew then?
Yeah. A group of us. You know, classic, (we’d) film each other, talk shit to each other and go out and skate. See what kind of shenanigans we can get ourselves into.
Were you able to travel at that age?
No, I didn’t start travelling until I got sponsored by, like, a skate shop or whatever.
Was there ever like a plan for you outside of skateboarding? Did you have a kind of idea before it became a career?
I honestly never really thought about it. It was one of those things that, it was just a snowball effect, where things just kind of started moving and moving and the next thing I knew, I was on a shop and the next thing I knew, I was Am for a company and I was going on tours and going to Europe… There was no premeditation by any means, it just kind of happened. And yeah, going along with it. It was pretty spontaneous, as far as the chain of events that happened.
You mentioned earlier that you were 16 when you first came to Europe and London was the first place you came to.
Yeah. It was London then Russia. Then Germany and then France.
Kevin Bækkel, frontside 50-50 grind, Birmingham
What was in your head when you came back to the US after that?
There’s something about architecture and ground, and rails, and spots… ‘Cause I was so, so consumed by skating then — like my mental capacity could only take in and look at skate spots and that stuff. I was so engulfed by skating that that’s all I thought about, you know? I mean, I had a fingerboard on the trips. I was sharing a room with Ethan Fowler and he was like, coming back from the bar drunk and I was just in there, fingerboarding, I couldn’t wait to skate.
Looking back, I think the thing I love about travelling so much is the weird things about cultures and people. The weird things about cities and towns, but the similarities are also something that I get a kick out of. ‘Cause no one really knows what the fuck they’re talking about. Even if you go out there, you realise those people don’t know what the fuck they’re talking about — like, we’re all the same, we’re all human. It’s one of those things, like, even as a little kid, it’s like, ‘whoa, I’m getting kicked out by this lady in London, and she’s acting the same way that some dude would be acting in LA, you know? People are the same everywhere. It was pretty crazy; people reacted to skating the same in every country I went to.
A universal dislike.
Yeah. Universal dislike. But then, there’s also the old man walking by, smiling and trying to talk to you or whatever. It’s the same thing. It always stayed in my mind, like, damn, everyone everywhere is the same and it’s fucking wild. Like, you can go as far as you fucking can and you’ll find someone that hates someone skating down the street or someone that’s like, ‘whoa, what is that? What are you doing?’ You know?
Kevin ‘Spanky’ Long, alley-oop slash, London
Sometimes we like to talk about ourselves as though we are some kind of unique species, right? Like, skateboarders see the world differently or whatever. But I do think it gives you a mode of seeing the world, right? Something that ‘normal people’ maybe don’t get to experience.
Yeah. Like, people come here, for instance, and all they do is tourist stuff. And what we do is the same thing we do back home, and we still go to
rails and stairs
— the same exact thing we do back home — but we just do in a completely foreign land. It’s just funny because the architecture is different, the ground’s different and the rails are made out of different shit — the dimensions are different — but the people are the same, like, everywhere you go, when you’re a skater. And I think that, as you get older, you realise, like you said, skaters are like, this is the way it is — we’re unique and special — it’s not true. As you get older, you get into different shit. Like how we were talking about rafting earlier, rafting is like skating to some people. Some people probably come out here and they’re like, ‘oh, like where’s the fucking nearest, whitewater?’ You know?
We are just lucky enough to do it for our job, so we think we’re fucking cooler or better than most people ‘cause we do what we love, you know?
You play music too; do you find any similarities in that respect? It’s a pretty universal thing as well. Is it a different way of seeing the world? Do you play in other cities and towns and countries?
Yeah, I tour and do the whole band thing pretty frequently. There are a lot of parallels for sure. But it’s funny, just going back to how us skaters think of ourselves as tough or whatever, I have a band and I went on tour with them and, you know, as a skater there’s an obligation, you wake up early, you skate all day, you do a demo, then you probably skate after the demo. Or like you wake up early, go to the demo and then skate all day. It’s just like really physically draining, you know? You could be sore and it’s like, you still have a demo today. It’s a physical act — and music is as well — but travelling with some buddies of mine and they’re like, ‘oh man, I’m so hungover and we gotta drive to a city…’ I’m like, you don’t have to drive, you have nothing to do until sound check at six. And even by that point, it’s a song or two, and then you’re chilling until like 10 or 11. Like, there is nothing you have to do. And even that is like, ‘fuck, dude, like so gnarly!’.
Matisse Banc, kickflip down to the flat ledge, Birmingham
I have friends that are in big bands — they sell out arenas and stuff — and they have tour buses and shit. They tour two weeks at a time and they’re like, ‘yeah, man, it’s pretty heavy’, and I’m thinking, you’re in a fucking charter bus, with catered food at your venue, you know?! And it’s just wild because we skaters spend our days in the fucking gutter for the most part. I mean, what they all do is super hard as well, to put that much of your heart out every night is a different type of exhaustion, you know. And there are a lot of parallels with the creative aspect, and even the travelling aspect — like you want to play in certain venues ‘cause they sound cool, or your favourite band played there or whatever, you know? Like, you want to skate fucking South Bank.
I think all creative things, like, it’s not just music and skating, it’s like art or photography… If you really love something, even if it’s like carpentry, there are similarities to skating. It’s all the same shit. Like, now I’m older, I can kind of articulate it better: all that matters is drive. If you have the drive to do something, then you can understand why someone would be want to build a fucking house the way they want to build it, or take two years to finish a painting. You can understand it now because it’s not about being a skater or musician: if you fucking love what you do and you have drive, and you’re willing to torture yourself, then that’s ultimately what all that is. Like drive is just another form of fucking torture.
Kevin ‘Spanky’ Long, early grab wallride, Manchester
Torture for a reason.
Yeah. Torture for a five-second clip that people are going to forget about anyways. But that’s the point, you know what I mean? It’s solely for that moment. That’s something that I’ve realised is getting older and with social media and shit, with music or anything. It’s like, you know what? It all doesn’t matter, like, none of this shit matters. Like, fucking, all that matters is I want to fucking land this fucking trick right now. It’s the funnest shit ever, and then you do it and it’s like, fuck, I need to go get another one. I need to chase that feeling again. We always joke about, on the Tum Yeto trips — because we’d go on ‘em for two months, three months at a time — how we get a trick and by the time we’re at the next spot, we’re already like, fuck, that was like, ‘that was an hour ago, I’m jonesing right now’. I was talking to (Daniel) Wheatley about it, he asked if my buddy Dakota (Servold) or I ever get on each other’s nerves and I was like, the only time there’s ever any type of friction is if someone’s just pissed ‘cause they haven’t got a trick in two or three days.
So they’re fiending.
Yeah. Fiending, fiending for that drug, you know?
Collin Provost, backside 180, Birmingham
You mentioned demos and I wondered about similarities between that performance aspect of skating and with music?
I think of demos totally as a performance. Yeah, like even before I played music, I grew up seeing demos and going on trips with Reynolds, Spanky and Herman and everyone being professional, and putting on a good show. If you get people happy, you get applause, cheers and praise too: it’s a fucking mechanism, you know what I mean? So I definitely think of demos as a performance.
So, you get something out of them as well?
Yeah, I mean, I love putting on a good demo for kids, because there’s no substitute for a fucking great live show. You know what I mean? Like if someone is skating around, not really trying or they’re over it, people see that. I don’t want a kid to see me at a demo and be like, ‘you didn’t really skate that much’. Like, if you’re hurt or whatever, then obviously you just get a thousand kids asking, ‘why aren’t you skating? Why aren’t you skating?’ But having a great demo, I can just get a kid stoked on skating that was maybe just there, or like a dude that’s always wanted to see you skate.
I take demos very seriously, like, performing for kids and grownups or whatever. I mean, nowadays I’m 35, so people are like, ‘I grew up watching you’ and I’m like, fuck, that’s crazy. I definitely think of it as a performance and I think if you don’t try your hardest to put on a good show, then it’s just kind of wack. People are there to see you and shops are there to support you and, and kids buy your shit. I don’t know why you wouldn’t want to.
Leo Romero, nosegrind, Manchester
Did demos have an impact on you when you were a kid?
Yeah, well, I saw a few demos, but I saw a lot of tour videos and I saw the energy. There’s also an energy with music when you’re playing a show and people are stoked, there’s an energy that you feel. And the same thing with demos, like you see your friend land a trick and you just want to get their back and everyone’s getting excited, you know? Watching tour videos growing up — which aren’t a thing anymore — and seeing that type of reaction from skaters and skate fans at a demo, it’s just rad. I remember watching those videos and you can kind of feel the tingling a little bit and then, I was there, and I’m like, my hair is standing up and I’m like, oh, that’s like what I was feeling, watching those fucking videos, you know?
It sounds like you enjoy being a part of that.
I do. I take that stuff very seriously because I think it’s important to show that to the shop that has you out there, to the kid that is a fan or is just there watching it. People can see through the bullshit if you’re not trying, you know what I mean? So, I think it’s very important.
Kevin ‘Spanky’ Long, frontside tailsmack, London
By the sounds of it, you’ve been demoing since the beginning of your career. So, you’ve seen the waxing and waning of things like tour videos and huge demos. What are your thoughts on that?
I definitely have. And I mean, we still do demos. Like when we go on these long trips, we still do demos. But as the companies that I ride for have gotten smaller in size, demos have gone smaller obviously. People want to see the big Instagram follower people, and that’s awesome. Our Emerica demos, when I first started riding for Emerica, were fucking packed and they’ve dwindled down, but I think that not only has to do with companies getting smaller and like marketing, getting weird — skating, just turning into different things — it’s just no one really does demos anymore.
As a person that likes to show off for the kids that support your brand or your shop or the shop that you’re at, whatever, it’s wild to me that skating could steer away from demos. It’s bizarre to me when that’s an age-old tactic to get people stoked on your shit, you know? I mean, it’s just weird. And since we’ve been doing them, we go through the random, smaller towns and we have good turnouts and people are like, ‘dude, I didn’t know people still did demos anymore. The last time there was a demo here, was fucking Osiris team for
The Storm!
’ It’s just wild. It’s like a simple thing. Or at least I think it’s simple to just hit up a shop that sells your shit and skate for some fucking kids or do a demo.
Kevin Bækkel, frontside 50-50 stall yank-in, London
I think when you’ve got limited access to live skateboarding action of a certain calibre, that can have a really big impact on people. I think that’s an often missed point. Maybe demos are seen as something more expendable.
I think so, and some don’t even try, like, I’m not saying you have to do the gnarliest shit, like just being stoked. (Bryan) Herman is one of the craziest demo skaters I’ve ever seen. He is one of the best skaters, naturally gifted and would kill a demo, but then sometimes he wouldn’t skate the demo, he would just hang out with the kids and they love him even more. Like there was a demo in Costa Rica where we were skating and people were cheering from the crowd. I remember looking and Herman was in the middle of them. He’s nailing the demo harder than all of us are and he’s just drinking with the kids. You know what I mean? So, there’s the folklore of, ‘dude, Spanky came and then they did a demo and he did like this sick ass frontside flip over the hip’ and there is like, ‘dude I hung out with fucking Kevin Bkkel and Collin and they were super sick’. All that is such a rad thing. And if you’re just trying to have a good time and be a part of it, it shows. It’s the whole thing that I think is very important. And it’s unfortunate that it’s not a common thing, maybe with social media kids don’t care as much. I think it’s easy not to care ‘cause it’s not happening.
It’s really bizarre to me that companies would steer away from doing demos because I think that overall — like followers, likes, people tagging, links to shit — that is the way you change people’s minds. You come into town and they’re like, ‘fuck, we didn’t carry that much Emerica, but they were fucking actually really sick, they skated the entire demo, they hung out after and they signed posters.’ They’re like, ‘let’s fucking hook ‘em up a little more. Like, you know what? This dude skated the hardest and he was super sick. I’m going to buy more Kevin Bkkel boards or something’, you know?
I mean, that’s why bands still tour. They’ve got to ‘cause there’s like no money in music, like how there’s barely any money in skating, but it’s such a rad thing.
I’m lucky enough to have been around such talented skaters in my entire life and everyone’s always been like demo prone and I’ve been lucky enough to skate with someone like Jaws. I see him and I’m like, he’s doing rails and jumping stairs and he’s doing fucking fives, he’s like the ultimate demo dude. I see that and it excites me and I want to be a part of it ‘cause it’s so fucking rad. Not only does he do that, he hangs out with the kids and smokes joints with them and goes to their house parties or whatever. You’re just like, dude, you’re the ultimate demo guy. You rage with the town and then you like, shut down the demo, and you hang out at the shop. I just think it’s a great thing.
Leo Romero, frontside nosegrind, London
What do you think turns skaters off doing demos?
I’m sure some people struggle with skating in front of people, you know? Or they feel the pressure and they get anxious and freak out, which sucks. I mean, it sucks for them because I think it’s such a fun thing about skating. Obviously it’s not for everyone, but I always think about it like, if that’s not your thing, regardless of any of it, like the shop’s still supporting your life, if you think you’re too cool for the check you’re getting then you’re just on your own tip, which is a different thing from not being too keen on demos or skating in front of people. People just want to see you out there and having a good time and being stoked.
A demo is kind of about projecting something, right? It’s about saying, look how good this can be, look how stoked everyone is. Part of the reason you’re going there is because that place sells your product. Part of the reason you’re going there, is ‘cause the people that buy your product are going there. So, there is that element to it as well, obviously. But there’s also an aspect of it that’s genuine. What’s the word I’m looking for… It’s like, as much as it is selling and marketing and people getting paid or whatever, there’s a genuine appreciation. Like, fuck, I mean, I get paid to skate; this is fucking crazy. Selling something sounds a bit crass and bold for some people but, bottom line is, that’s what’s going on. But at the same time, it’s like, everyone knows that and people want to support something that’s fun and rad to be around. I don’t think about it like, ‘I hope I sell like a shitload of shoes here.’ I just hope I stoke someone out. I hope I stoke the shop out.
Spanky signing his name a bunch
Some of your sponsors have been consistent for quite a long time. Is that something that’s important to you?
I’ve definitely been fortunate enough to ride for some of the raddest brands, I think. It’s not like a conscious thing where I’m like, ‘I’m going to ride for these guys no matter what!’ I’ve never chased any type of — and I don’t mean this in a bad way — trend or money, ever. So, I think it’s just kind of a natural thing. Like, I’ve always done something just because it felt right, which is why I tell younger dudes that are being sponsored now when they ask me, ‘what do you think I should do here?’ I’m like, man, if you think it’s wack, then maybe you shouldn’t do it, but don’t let anyone else tell you or try to convince you it’s wack ‘cause at the end of the day you have to live with yourself. So, if you think it’s wack and you still want to do it, fuck it, do it anyway. We all got to make a living, but if you don’t want to do it, ‘cause you think it’s wack, then don’t do it.
I’ve always had the thing in me where I’m happy where I am. I’m allowed to do whatever I want… and I’m not getting any offers… No, I’ve been fortunate enough that the companies trust me and let me do what I want ‘cause I’ve been doing it for a long time and I’ve kind of been self-sufficient. That’s a luxury that you can’t really get anywhere other than when you have been doing what you do the way you do it and producing for such a long time.
It’s definitely rad. It’s something I think about. And I’m proud that I’ve kind of had that thing where I’ve always been on these brands. Some people jump around. Some people have to. Some people like to, and that’s fine. Nothing against them, everyone’s got to make a living. Some people just like one thing and they want to go and move on. But I don’t know, for me, I like where I’m at. Everyone that I skate with is awesome. Everyone that I work with is super fucking awesome. They let me do what I want because I’m a hard worker and they trust me. So I don’t really have a need to go anywhere else or do anything like that.
Click the gallery below for more of Rafski’s Emerica pics
View Gallery | 5 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  May 13, 2020
Hugo Liard – My Way
Hugo is the is the first pro I saw skate in person (hence what you’re about to read possibly sounding a bit corny). He was wearing the world’s tightest jeans and kept doing these slightly rocketed nollies and pop shuvits into lipslides on every rail at the skatepark going as fast as he possibly could, which may not sound that sexy on paper but to my 12-year-old eyes was the sickest shit ever. You could just tell he was having the best time and he gave off this aura of being really confident in not wanting to conform when everyone else at the park was desperately trying to be Peter Smolik in ‘The Storm’. I’ll spare you the details of how nice he was to me and every skateboarding child who fanned out on him that afternoon but I feel like this gives a little bit of context to the cosmic journey you’re about to embark on. Hugo was a true individual throughout his career with Antiz and that carried on into his life after he gracefully retired to build himself a house in Evian (from scratch, using YouTube tutorials). Above is a self-edited retrospective edit of all the best footage he accumulated over the years and below is an update on how he’s been living his life since.
-Arthur Derrien
Ludo Azémar, Sam Partaix, Rémy Taveira and Hugo at an Antiz prem. Photo:
Fabien Ponsero
.
‘Around 2005 I started waking up from my conditioned life and started finding my true self. The illusion of ”ME” slowly died and I started seeing my life and this world in a different light. These changes led to the idea of finding a place on earth where I could grow my own food, have a healthy environment and be away from all the craziness of this world. For many years I prepared my heart and mind for this and slowly the desire grew strong enough for it to become reality.
Through my whole life I never wanted to pay to live and I always felt that life should be free. And for a long time it kinda was as I was rolling around the world with my magic carpet board. But in some ways I was just running away from the reality. In 2010 I faced it all and decided to make some changes. I left Antiz (business wise), bought a piece of land from Evian, France and started building my own house. For few years I built it mostly by myself because I wanted to know every part of it. Sometimes I needed help from friends and Chloé my soulmate but most of the times I was digging, sawing, insulating etc. by myself. As it grew it became my very own cosmic ship. A ship to cross all this chaos we are living in. And all I needed inside was the essentials: water, food and love.
So here I’m living now with Chloé and together we are a force of love, working everyday around the land and the house. We have everything we need: electricity, rain water, stove heater. We still need to install drinkable water and biogas. At the moment we are 50% self sufficient. One foot in this crazy world and another in our kingdom. I think everyone should build their own house. It’s a natural transition with skateboarding. It’s not easy but neither is skateboarding which thought me the strength to do it. It’s like trying a trick with just a couple of friends giving help, advice and courage. A house is just a bigger board with the planet as it’s wheels.
Photo:
Gabeeb
.
I’m not here to hide from anything. Everyday I try to bring a balance to this earth and between its lights and shadows, both inside and outside of me.
I am like a pirate who’s found his treasure island. I still remember all the past trips, oceans and lands I crossed. They are carved in my heart and they will always be a big part of my strength to do what I’am doing now and in the future.
Over the last few years, I was fighting with my board to pass a message through my tricks with Antiz and my friends. I skated to say ”NO” to these unnatural controllers, to these vicious reptiles who want to destroy our roots. I grinded federal banks’ marble benches, broke huge business tower stairs, slided rails like politicians’ faces and I will continue to skate to this message till my last day on this planet. I fight to put more YES and less NO in mine and other people’s lives.
Boardslide. photo: Fabien Ponsero.
So again I am using myself and this video part here to pass on this message humanity. Today we have a chance to change the world we’re living in. This part is a call to the consciousness and the light inside of you. Just like you need to know your run up, the spot and the landing you need to know your history, your life and where you’re going. Just like you travel around the world, opening frontiers to find new spots and discover different styles of architecture to ride, you can open new realities inside of yourself. Question everything you’ve been taught and look inside yourself. You have the power to become who you really are. Don’t listen to the man yelling from the top of the pyramid. Build your own one with love and compassion and share it with others.
Chloé helped put together this part and this message. I love her just like I love all of you and invite you to join my family as the people that wish to return to their roots.
Keep on pushing hard and learn from your slams. Become who you truly are.’
Hugo Liard
View Gallery | 6 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  August 20, 2019
Tyshawn Jones: Canned Heat
Words by
Ryan Gray
Tyshawn Jones, London, 2019. Ph. Andrew Peters
Tyshawn Jones is not a talkative man. It’s hardly uncommon to find interviews of his that consist of questions that are longer than their respective answers, and his answers are generally to the point with very little in the way of conversational window dressing. Despite growing up around some of the most high profile and well respected individuals that the skateboard industry has to offer, and despite all of the ballistic skateboarding that he himself is very much responsible for, Tyshawn doesn’t care to revel in the events of the past; he’s firmly focused on life in the present, and how it can shape the outcome of the future. Considering the things that he’s done and the events that he’s undoubtedly been witness to, I’m sure he could regale us all for hours on end if he decided to, he just doesn’t see the merit in doing so. Yet.
Tyshawn had flown to London the night before our interview was set to take place, and – owing largely to the body clock confusion brought on by transatlantic travel – had stayed awake until 6am watching TV in his room. I join him in the bar at the Ace Hotel in Shoreditch, where he’s sat around a table with his Hardies Hardware business partner Val Perre and their comrade Donny G. Despite the lack of sleep and the evident haze of jetlag-induced bewilderment, Tyshawn seems fairly serene and in good spirits. It’s a few hours until the adidas and Slam City Skates ‘Keep London Tidy’ event is due to kick off at a schoolyard in nearby Haggerston. By the end of the day, Tyshawn would be visible on all forms of social media switch flipping and halfcab flipping over one of his custom made trash cans, though at that specific moment in time, he claims he’s only “here to watch”. Rumours were circulating after the fact that he was actually skating the jam on somebody else’s board too, which make the handful of tricks he graced east London with all the more ridiculous.
After some talk about London and a confession that he’s never watched any of adidas TM Paul Shier’s video parts – “I fuck with Paul; I know he’s good so I trust his skate parts is good” – the conversation moves to Tyshawn’s childhood. The story goes that Tyshawn found his way onto a skateboard after he and his brother got addicted to EA Skate: “I just used to play the game with my brother, then months later we wound up skating because my mom wanted us to go outside, so she gave us money to get a skateboard. That’s how it started.” When Tyshawn moved back to New York from Jersey, he began to realise that skateboarding could become more than something you did to pass the time; it was possible to make a career out of it, if you went about things in the right way: “I feel like I didn’t realise (sponsored skateboarding was possible) until I lived in New York again and met people who were good at skating. I moved back to New York, I met people who had sponsors and they used to talk about that kind of stuff, and that’s how I figured out about it.” Now living back in the Bronx and progressing at a rapid rate, his explosive skateboarding soon caught the attention of Ty Lyons at Supreme, who – after a couple of delays due to Tyshawn’s reluctance to visit the store – eventually became his first sponsor.
The skate world’s initial introduction to Tyshawn came via the Supreme clip ‘Buddy’, which was released online back in June 2012. Clocking in at 51 seconds in length, the Bill Strobeck produced video paired a then pint sized Tyshawn with Jason Dill as they both tackled a handful of instantly recongnisable New York staples, ending with a 13 year old Tyshawn calling out Dill for clipping his wheels on his line-closing ollie. “We filmed ‘Buddy’ for Supreme, that’s when I met all of them. I met Dill years before at 12th and A, but I met Bill and filmed with him on that commercial. Then I re-met Dill again…like, really met him.” Even though they both had high profiles within skateboarding at the time, Tyshawn – who gladly admits he’s never been one to pay too much attention to skate culture – wasn’t really aware of either of their legacies: “I knew who Dill was because people talked about him. I didn’t know about Bill until I started going on trips and people be like “you film with William Strobeck? That’s so cool” so then I really started to know who he was, but at first I didn’t really know.” He goes on to add: “I was young so I was just kind of there, but not really aware of who I was around.”
‘Buddy’ planted Tyshawn firmly into skateboarding’s subconscious, but it was ‘Cherry’ – Supreme’s era-defining full length video, released in 2014 – which cemented him as one of the next generation to be really paying attention to. Up until the release of ‘Cherry’, Tyshawn was getting flowed boards from Toy Machine, a hook up that came about by his own doing: “I just sent them footage. I wanted to be on because I wanted to skate with Nick Trapasso, but when I got on he had already left the team.” In 2013, Dill parted ways with Alien Workshop and – along with Anthony Van Engelen – decided to turn his longstanding Fucking Awesome clothing project into a fully fledged board outfit: “I started finding out about FA just after ‘Cherry’. (Dill) kept asking me to get on, so I asked Toy Machine are they gunna put me on as this other company want to put me on, and they said “not right now”, so I was like “alright, fuck it” and I went on to FA.”
He was happy getting shoes and a little bit of money off Emerica too, until a chance meeting set the wheels in motion for him to eventually make the switch to adidas: “I met Jascha (Muller) at Black Hubba in 2014; he chased me down the block to ask me who I got shoes from and was telling me how he wanted to put me on. I was coming back from a skate spot, I skated past another spot and they were doing a commercial there, and he ran after me and was like ‘yo, I wanna hook you up, can I take your contact?’ and that’s how it wound up happening, after a while.” Now, five years later, having filmed
his first full part
for the adidas video ‘Away Days’ (2016) and had several collaborations between adidas and his hardware company Hardies, Tyshawn is the proud owner of his very own pro shoe – designed alongside Scott Johnston, no less – the release of which the ‘Keep London Tidy’ event is actually being held in honour of. But when asked about the achievement within skateboarding that he’s most proud of, after a lengthy pause to think, it’s winning
Thrasher’s
coveted ‘Skater of the Year’ plaudit in 2018 that comes out on top.
You don’t even need to be keeping yourself up-to-date with global skateboarding news to be aware of the existence of
Tastes So Good (Make You Wanna Smack Your Mama)
, Tyshawn’s own Caribbean-American restaurant in the Bronx – its opening in September 2018 was regarded as such an event that Fox News even ran a piece on it. Now nearing the end of its first year in business, Tyshawn claims the restaurant is doing well and doesn’t flinch when the idea of a possible chain of eateries is brought up. He states that before being a professional skateboarder was looking like a viable career option, he wanted to be a chef. When asked if his childhood dreams of being a chef were the inspiration behind opening Tastes So Good, he thinks for a moment before replying: “A little bit of that, and having my own thing, that I can call mine – like really mine. Having a shoe and skateboards and stuff is cool, but somebody has given me those, and they can take them away, in a sense. Having my own restaurant, that’s mine; can’t nobody take that away from me.”
Val Perre (of Hardies) and Tyshawn in London. Ph. Andrew Peters
If you follow Tyshawn on Instagram (
@enwhytj
) you’ll know that he’s far from a prolific poster, but when he does see fit to post a skate clip, it’s generally something nonsensical and, as a result, it will rack up a staggering amount of views and reposts. For instance, that very morning he posted an iPhone clip of his latest trash can flip trick conquest –
a stomped nollie backside flip
– and it instantly did the social media rounds. But unlike a lot of Tyshawn’s contemporaries, he doesn’t care much for Instagram, as you can probably tell by the fact he’s been running his account since 2013 and he hasn’t hit the 200 post mark yet:
“I guess being raised in the skating industry around the right people, I always knew that that was corny. And it is corny to showcase your hardest work on Instagram for likes and stuff like that. No one really cares about Instagram at the end of the day. It’s fun to post on there sometimes but that’s like another world to me; I try to stay focused in the real world. I like to put out real parts that’ll last longer than an Instagram post.”
His dedication to traditional skateboarding output is evident when I ask him about his plans for the future. In the space of seven short years, Tyshawn has achieved more than most could hope to achieve in a career four times as long – he’s responsible for video parts that are already regarded as classics, iconic magazine covers, a pro shoe on one of the worlds biggest footwear companies, a string of boards on undoubtedly one of the most popular board brands of the day, he’s being hailed
Thrasher’s
‘Skater of the Year’ – and he’s accomplished all of that before he would be legally allowed to drink a celebratory beer in his own country – not that he partakes in the consumption of alcohol. So what’s next? “I’m taking it day by day right now, just drop more good parts I guess. I just want to keep putting out dope footage.”
What about life outside of skating? When asked about potential grand plans in the business sector, Tyshawn leaves us in a typically understated manner before preparing for his looming appointment with Rob Mathieson’s GoPro wielding sidekick
Fatman the Dog
:
“I ain’t gunna speak on that, because I don’t speak on things until they’re done; everyone’s gunna have to see it when it comes out…(laughs).”
Wheelie days… Ph. Andrew Peters

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 15, 2017
Niilo Nikkanen Interview
Frontside 180 kickflip, Copenhagen.
Niilo is well known in Finland and I’m sure some of you’ve heard about him too. He doesn’t live in Helsinki, which is the capital and the epicentre of skateboarding in Finland. For a long time it was said that if you want to ‘make it’ in the game you have to move there. The Internet and especially social media changed that and it doesn’t really matter anymore where you lay your hat as long as you’re in this new worldwide playing field. And I think it’s great because without the Internet who knows if you’d be reading an article about a skater who lives in a city called Kouvola. Yeah… Google it!
Interview by Samu Karvonen
Photography by Justus Hirvi
Hey Niilo, where are you at?
Niilo Nikkanen: Having a coffee in a place called Betony, in the centre of Kouvola.
What have you been up to lately? I heard you twisted your ankle?
Unfortunately yes, a few days ago in the indoor park. I kicked the board away but ended up half stepping on it perfectly the wrong way.
Is it bad?
Not too crazy, but it’s the same ankle I broke a year ago in Bangkok.
Yeah I remember this. How was it to deal with it in a foreign country like Thailand?
Eventually in the hospital it all worked out pretty smoothly with Bryan (Callaghan) helping me out. The crazier part was to get to the hotel from the spot that was about an hour away. We took some random motorcycle ride to the train station while bumping my ankle here and there on the way. I waited in the hotel for a few days to see how bad it was, but after I realised I still couldn’t put any weight on it I had to go give it a check.
And what about this time? Did you go show the ankle to a doctor?
Nah, it’s not that bad. Just chilling with it for a while.
Safe. Weren’t you just somewhere in the south?
A few weeks ago I was in Sicily with Farid (Ulrich), Kilian (Zehnder), Biemer the German photographer and Denny (Pham) but his heel was bruised so he couldn’t really skate that much.
Sounds a lot like a Nike trip?
Well basically it was LiveLifeSkate / Bryan’s trip. He put it all together and got Nike to pay for it all.
Dope! He’s kinda like a freelance manager and filmer for you guys.
Exactly. He made it work super good. The tour clip is supposed to come out soonish if I’m right.
Nice. Any other trips coming soon?
We’re supposed to go to Alicante and Valencia with a few of my friends actually around this time, but maybe it’ll be in the end of the month then.
Will your ankle be back in shape by then?
I think it’ll be good in a week or so.
Frontside crooked grind, Espoo.
How old are you?
24.
OK. That explains the recovery time. Won’t be the same in five years believe me. I’ve always wondered how come you still live in Kouvola? You’re a well known sponsored skater but still you live 150km from Helsinki, where everything goes down. What’s keeping you there?
Well we got a good indoor park here so winters are no problem. I got bunch of friends still skating who I started with, and I hardly ever stay here for the whole winter anyway. I’m always trying to travel to see the sun like every other Finnish person. And in the summer it’s not that hard to come visit Helsinki and stay at my friends’ places.
True that. And the Indoor park you have is pretty massive compared to the city’s size and the amount of skaters.
How did that come up?
Well Roope Tonteri, a Finnish snowboarder who grew up here won the World Championship in 2013 and somehow used his position to help us to get a proper indoor park. Of course the city people were pretty proud to have
a local world champ so they ended up paying for the park I guess. It was supposed to be called the Tonteri Arena
or something, hahaha.
Way to go! That’s how you do it.
Yeah it’s really good. It’s mostly tranny though since Roope designed it, but there is still something for everyone.
Does it ever get crowded in there?
It’s not too crazy. There is a different time for BMX riders and scooters so we all get our own sessions there. It’s a part of this big ball game arena so the business is not fully reliant on the skatepark users, which is a good thing.
Ollie up to backside tailslide, Helsinki.
Is there still the same course as in the beginning? Have you thought of renewing it one day?
There have been some talks about taking a piece of the floorball area next to the park and build one of these ski jump into a foam pit type of obstacles in it but I don’t really know if it will happen. Would be pretty sick if we could get that whole area and put more flat obstacles in there. Even if I wouldn’t live here it would be great to have an indoor park like that in Finland.
I’m backing that up. It’s so big and good already that even some of us capital people are ready
to make day trips there. On to a whole different matter: Do you still live with your parents?
No, I now got my own little studio in the centre.
It’s probably a lot cheaper than in Helsinki?
Definitely! In here it’s actually possible to save money for the travels.
So basically what you save from not living in Helsinki you use to travel south in the winter?
Yeah, you could put it like that.
Switch hardflip, Helsinki.
So where do you get your money then?
I was working at a surveying office, measuring lands and different areas for the city.
So you’re the dude standing with an orange stick while the other scopes you with that weird binocular?
Hahaha yeah, exactly that and sometimes it’s just sitting on a computer filling the maps with the data we gather for upcoming construction sites like playgrounds for example.
Interesting. How come you got into that? Did you go to school for it?
Not really, I graduated from business school studying data processing, which the only advantage to this job is few bits of software we use. My father’s girlfriend pointed this job out saying it could suit me. She knew some people from the office so it was easier to get an internship position from there. I never even thought about that line of business but eventually decided to give it a try. I worked there this spring, took of few months off in the summer and now I could go back there.
So it suits your travels and skating schedule?
Kinda. They are ready to give me an indenture position but I got to think twice if that’s really what I want to be doing next. Some sort of design studies could be interesting as an option, but we’ll see about that later.
Backside 180 kickflip, Helsinki.
Well at least you got a place to return to if all else fails.
Yeah, it’s a safe thing to have. I think the next step would be moving to Helsinki. But it is not that easy to get a place to study in there because everybody wants to be there. Then you’d probably need a job on the side to be able to study and live there… So when would I have time to skate then?
Yeah. You would need to face some serious compromising. One thing I’m personally curious about is your sponsor situation. It’s now clear that Nike seems to be helping you out at least?
Yeah, Nike is helping me to go on all these tours and I’ve got some video incentives from them.
That’s a good motivation to film. Back in the days photo incentives were the thing, but not in your case then?
I don’t really know. I guess not.
Frontside feeble grind, Helsinki.
Maybe when this interview comes out. How was it to shoot your first full interview? Are you happy with the outcome?
We got few shots in the spring with Justus (‘Jude’ Hirvi) and then my friend Jack (Thompson) mentioned he could edit a little clip of my footage for
Free
so we went for a few more shots. First I thought the photos were going for a web article along with the video but realised later it was going to be a full interview. I’m happy with every photo we got in the end. I really like Jude’s pictures and his style of shooting. Sure there are few things I wanted to have but never landed them. And I’m still missing a portrait. Got to get Jude up here to shoot one in the blizzard I guess, hahaha.
Is it snowing in there?
Yeah. All white. Not in Helsinki?
Nope. All black. Outside hockey rinks are open though. Didn’t you play Hockey too?
Not really. Just with friends here and there. I snowboarded and skied but just for occasional fun. In school I liked playing floor ball compared to other subjects, but never on a team or anything. I never liked being in one place at a certain time doing a certain thing. I like the freedom to choose when and where.
Sounds a lot like skateboarding to me. You mentioned there will be a video part dropping with this interview?
Yeah. Jack is editing a little Desert clip of my footage.
What’s Desert?
It’s a friends small hardware brand from Barcelona.
All right. Cool.
Definitely. It’s funny that I started filming in Kouvola without knowing where it’s all going to end up and now Jack, who hasn’t filmed any of those tricks, will edit it. I’m interested to see how it’s going to look.
Frontside smith grind gap out, Lahti.
You have a history of filming and editing too so you probably got some sort of a vision of how you want it to look?
I have been filming and editing these ‘Dirty connection’ clips with my friends for some years so yeah I guess I could be a little strict of how things should be edited. Or maybe not strict but I mean if you’re doing something why not do it good? I think Jack will send me some previews and we’ll look into it together.
As long as you get along with the editor I think it’s all fine. Back to the sponsor issue: What’s up with Perus?
I haven’t got any boards for awhile and I’m not really sure what happened in the end to be honest, but I know the crew is still there ripping hard and Pirkka (Pollari) has been doing some edits and stuff. So yeah, that’s about it.
So where do you get your boards then?
From Ponke’s the shop and Jack just sent me a box of Desert boards. Even though they are a hardware company they did some boards too. Stoked on these.
And what about LRG? Are you still on?
Last year we did this big ‘Let the kids play’ tour but this year it has been pretty quiet. No budget apparently. It’s on but not. Can’t really say what’s up with that either. But I heard the ‘mixtape’ we’ve been filming for few years with the euro guys should come out before Christmas. There should be parts from every one of us.
So there should be three different parts coming out of you in the near future?
Hopefully yeah. Well that Sicily thing is more of a trip than a part.
Nollie inward heelflip, Kouvola.
I hope Nike pays attention to this ($$$)!
Hahaha. Yeah. I’m personally waiting for that LRG clip the most. We’ve saved some good clips with them from over the past few years. Would be nice to get them out since some of the footy is getting pretty old already.
I know the feeling. Two years is still OK. Though these days a lot of shit needs to be either live or viral the
minute after.
Yeah it’s getting crazy. But if you got really good stuff I don’t think the footy really gets old in the end.
I guess it’s a matter of the spot for example. If it’s your local plaza you’ll probably outdo your stuff from last year, but if it’s a special spot you won’t be returning to anytime soon then the footy can hold its breath for a little longer.
Yep. A lot of that stuff is from Croatia but some we filmed in Helsinki the summer before.
So for the past few years you’ve had a couple of different projects going. Do you arrange or swap footage with different filmers or are you just happy that whoever you film with then that’s where the footage will end up?
Usually it goes to who ever filmed it. When we film with our own cameras or other non-HD cameras it ends up on some of our own edits. HD clips are usually more out of my reach and I can’t decide where they will end up.
Which one you like more HD or SD?
SD but it also depends on the spot and the filmer. I’m not too picky about it. I have some ideas of what spots looks good with what camera. Like maybe save the crustiest spots for VX or something. But sure you can film anything with any camera. Some stuff just works better with the other.
So what’s your future plans? Alicante and Valencia, what’s next?
Yeah, maybe continue to Barcelona from there. No return ticket. Stay until I run out of money and then come back to the indoor parks.
Kickflip frontside noseslide, Helsinki.
And what about the summer?
No bigger plans yet. Sticking in Finland I assume. Maybe go visit Copenhagen or something. There’s no point in spending all your money in the summer. I rather save it to get away in the winter. Taking it a day at a time. At least I have that one job waiting if nothing else pops up.
Sounds like a plan. Since it’s your first interview you get the courtesy of the good old THANKS here.
Cheers for all my friends that have been out there skating and filming with me, especially Arttu Paloniemi, Sami Eskola and Aapo Olervo. Thanks for my sponsors for the help, especially Vaughan Baker and Colin Kennedy from Nike. Thanks to LRG’s Christian Welther and the rest of the Stuttgart boys. Ponke’s the shop. Cheers to Jack for the Desert boards and the edit! Moms and Pops and Jude for showing me all the special spots and making this interview happen.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 28, 2020
Dorkzone | Darkzone
Video and words by Phil Evans
Malmö Photography by Nils Svensson
Illustrations by Mike O’Shea
What is Dorkzone? A couple of years back I had the pleasure of pitching a video project to the head honchos at Malmö’s mighty Bryggeriet skate organisation. Mike O’Shea and myself had come up with a plan for a very silly video with talking ramps called ‘Dorkzone’, and while I was nervously fumbling through what we’d like to do (and feeling the cold steely gazes from poker faces of the assembled dons), I remembered I’d brought along a very crude visual prop to aid my presentation; a piece of pink card with bricks drawn on it and a pair of eyes cut out. I’d inserted a yellow strip of card behind it with two eyeballs drawn on to it so the eyes could move, kind of like a shite birthday card. I held it up and moved the eyes and made some stupid noises and said, ‘Yeah, y’know, bzzz bzzzz, Dorkzone! Talking ramps.’
Sondre Mortensen, backside slash
Perhaps the crude stupidity of it worked? Or maybe it was the bribery cake I’d brought but I already knew this was an initiative that Nils Svensson (one of the aforementioned steely eyed bossmen) had wanted to do for years; as he said one day whilst staring into the Oresund sunset with his hand on his heart and with tears running down his perfectly formed cheekbones ‘​I have a vision… A vision to create a department of Bryggeriet that focuses on skate culture to give anyone interested in skating a new access point beyond skateparks and competitions. A vision for the children; a vision for all.​’
The project got the thumbs up so we were able to draft in the talented whiny voiced Englishman Mike O’Shea, whose country had conveniently just voted to sink itself or some such like. So he packed up a bindle with some crayons and sailed over to Malmö in a pea-green boat. With his pint sized missus Anna navigating by the stars in the summer night sky they soon made their way to shore and the team was now assembled.
Moa Zander, backside tailslide
The plan was laid out: we would work on a dorky video with skating and Mike’s props and animations, we would then show that video to kids in schools around Malmö and hopefully inspire them to get involved, like Michele Pfeiffer in Dangerous Minds but with skateboards. With the help of Gustav Eden and his mates at City Hall we have since been able to host a series of art and animation workshops in some of Malmö’s less privileged quarters… And the kids love it! Just like the Wu-Tang Clan, Dorkzone is for the children.
To make things a little more spicy and a lot more rad we enlisted the original plankboard talents of Luleå’s siblings Amandus & Sondre Mortensen, besties Mimmi Leckius & Moa Zander, a manga loving ripper called Gabbe Viking, Penny the dog and a whole host of friends who all bring something creative to the table. In a short time Dorkzone has evolved into being greater than the sum of its parts, with folks getting involved with producing workshops, books, boards, clothes, zines, cassette tape soundtracks, videos, gigantic murals but unfortunately we have yet to make any pogs.
Sondre Mortensen, backside kickflip
Moa with mirror and Sondre with kickflip
So how did we get to the current video project ‘Darkzone’? We realised through the workshops that most kids don’t like nice stuff that much, well sometimes. Any given workshop can produce anything from love hearts to warzones to dragons to communist propaganda, but the ethos of Dorkzone remains the same. Skateboarding is silly and we’re not really cool, we’re all a bunch of Dorks, and that’s just fine.
‘Heart to Tell’ from the Darkzone O.S.T.
Sondre lyrics:
Tell your heart that I’m the one Tell your heart that I’m the one For you’ve felt it
For you’ve held it
Sometimes
a wind blows
and the world spins and the grass grows
and often who knows
firs
and pine trees what rain holds through the entries grand and blue
Well I’ve got everything when I’ve got you
Well I’ve got everything when I’ve got you
Well I’ve got everything when I’ve got you
Well I’ve got everything when I’ve got you
Well I’ve got everything when I’ve got you
Well I’ve got everything when I’ve got you
Well I’ve got everything when I’ve got you
Mike O’Shea interview
So Mike, we’re standing in Apelgårdskolan in Malmö, what are we doing here?
We are painting on a playground floor, we’re doing an adventure track for the kids to play on and navigate through the schoolyard from one building to another. The kids in the school came up with a bunch of drawings and I interpreted it for the floor. We also painted a bowl that Bryggeriet Construction built in the school a few months ago and they were stoked on that so they asked us to come back and do more.
How does this all relate back to Dorkzone?
When we make a video or book or whatever we show it at different schools and then do workshops so the kids can get involved and make their own skate graphics and animations and stuff. The goal is to facilitate their ideas and show them that there’s lots of ways beyond skating to get involved in the skate world – although we do skate coaching too. There’s a community outreach aspect to this too as a lot of these areas are troubled and have a lot of crime so we try to engage the kids with workshops and skating.
A lot of the kids here were very curious so I’m going to ask some of their questions: Why are you painting?
Because I want to make a nice bright colourful playground for you to play on.
How did you get good at drawing?
Lots of practice! I started when I was a little kid and I never stopped. You just keep drawing every day.
Amandus Mortensen, backside nosegrind
I can’t draw. How do I draw well?
Lots of practice! Or money. Pay someone to teach you.
Back to grown up questions: Do you prefer to work on assignments or do your own thing?
It’s been nice to do the Dorkzone stuff, as there’s a good mix. Some of it is more for me and the kind of work I want to do and the style I want to do: with the videos, graphics, posters, clothing, etc. With the mural projects it’s more about what the kids want and making things kid friendly so they’re stoked on it, which they have been. They won’t stop running on the paint even when it’s wet – but it’s rad to see them interact with it instantly!
Moa Zander, pivot to fakie
Moa Zander interview
How long can you sit still for?
I can sit still for a long time; I like to lie on my bed eating candy all day.
You’ve provided some pretty dark illustrations for the new video project. Some weird evil cats shooting rabbits… Where does this come from? Have you always had an interest in drawing?
When I was little I saw a rabbit with a gun in the forest in my hometown Sundsvall. He was aiming at my neighbour’s cat. I ran, I heard a gunshot. I never saw that cat again. Now I’m trying to overcome my fear of rabbits.
Does your mood change when it gets dark or are you permanently in the Darkzone?
I don’t know if my mood changes when it gets dark. When it gets dark I run around screaming in my room, because I am woken up every night by rabbits from the Darkzone that have come to visit me. I don’t know what they want from me, they just stare at me. Since this first happened I’m sleeping with a sword I bought in Sundsvall under my pillow if the rabbits would come armed one night. It’s good that this almost only happens at night.
You were recently working with Bryggeriet Construction grinding the surfaces off skateparks to make them all shiny and new, how’d that go?
It went good; it was nice to learn. But my fingers still feel a bit weird.
What’s your favourite thing to do right now (apart from petting Mimmi)?
My favourite thing to do right now is to listen to food songs, snowboard songs and skateboard songs.
You seem to skate 100% or nothing. How do you get to 100%?
Jalla Jalla falafel is required to get to 100%!
Sondre Mortensen, casper stall
Sondre Mortensen interview
If you’re riding a pony you are where you want to be, so you let the world come to you. You don’t seem like a fella who is in much of a hurry. Is this the key to the cowboy way of thinking? What does it feel like when you’re in this mind frame?
The world spins. It’ll come your way, so just keep on truckin’ like that cowboy you be! And while you’re truckin’ along, why hurry? Isn’t that the moment when things start to become hard, weird, stressful and makes you turn up late plus having a lot of stuff on your mind? Or maybe I just suck at hurrying?
Your musical influences are quite eclectic. Who have you been vibing on lately?
It’s been all over the board lately. Everything from the Hypnotize Minds catalogue to Saint Etienne, Cola Freak Records, Medvind, Gibbo, John Cale, The Durutti Column…
Sometimes you seem to be chilling at the stable and lately it seems like you’ve been galloping on your pony? Do you think it’s important not to force your creativity, whether it’s music, skating or art?
I think creativity has its own kind of force. So forcing that force just gets really weird for me… But I love skating and I love music and I love a lot of stuff so I’m not gonna stop! It’s way too fun.
Gabriel Viking, frontside air
Gabbe Viking interview
We heard your development as a boy was a bit delayed and your right leg grew faster than your left, is this how you can skate with one foot so well? Did it hurt being called pogo boy?
No way! Being a pogo kid is totally badass. Yeah, it’s my medical condition but for what it’s worth it helps me do some kick ass one foots!
You watch a lot of anime and do your own art and illustrations. What’s the darkest anime show that you can recommend?
I do indeed! One of the darkest animes I’ve watched is probably Dorohedoro, actually read the manga first and I recommend it 100%. It’s probably my favourite manga of all time.
Manga are the books you read by the way…
I really love the art style and the characters. It’s one of those shows/manga that really stuck with me. I still think about Dorohedoro to this day.
Gabriel Viking, frontside 360
While we were filming for this project you landed a body varial over a gap and Mike messed up the filming so you had to do it again. What happened next and will you forever bear a grudge against Mike for his gross incompetence?
Yeah we kept going because Mike accidentally took a photo instead of filming the trick so I ended up shooting out the board like no tomorrow. Unfortunately Phil couldn’t grab it in time so the sea devoured it 🙁
Phil made a glorious war cry though so it was pretty chill. All in all, a great day!
Anything else you’d like to add Kebabmaster?
Of course! I’d like to give a big shout out to my homies back in Sthlm, Goof Gang and most of all my cat Fluffy.
Click on the gallery below for more of Nils Svensson’s Dorkzone pics
View Gallery | 9 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  December 22, 2016
Rémy Taveira Interview
Rémy. Portrait by DVL
I don’t really know a lot about skateboarding. So when I met Rémy he just told me he stopped studying a few months ago and is now just hanging around travelling and stuff. So the first few months I had no idea about his skating, I was just wondering what he was doing all the time and why he always stopped in the middle of the street to look at some steps and walls and why he was so obsessed with the weather report. I think it took a few months until I knew that he was kind of skateboarding as a job. That really shows how he doesn’t really like talking about himself – or I think he is just a very humble person.
At some point he was always doing this one trick where he was really twisting his body and you could always see his booty in the pictures; that one I liked. So I asked his friends ‘what’s this trick Rémy always does?’ and they immediately said ‘backsmith’. They thought it was so funny that I loved this trick. I think he learned a lot of new ones now ‘cause I haven’t seen him doing this one in a long time, so that’s all I know as far as Rémy and skating.
I know that he is obsessed with travelling, seeing new things and skating new places. He loves being in Paris ‘cause that’s his home, but I think after a few weeks he needs to see new things. He has always been very dedicated to skateboarding, never really says no and lives quite in the moment. Once I asked him what he thinks of before he goes to sleep and he said he’s thinking of what trick he wants to do tomorrow. So that’s about how far he plans into the future.
– Pauline Jorry
Interview by Arthur Derrien
From what I’ve heard you’ve had quite a busy summer. Can you run us through what you’ve been up to? Maybe you can start off with the Hellfest…
Rémy Taveira: Yeah sure. So every year with Antiz we go to this metal festival called
Hellfest
. It’s massive; maybe the biggest metal festival in Europe. They’ve always got bands like Slayer, Black Sabbath and stuff. They’ve also got shitloads of budget, so much that it sometimes feels a little bit like Disney Land – it’s seriously massive… I don’t exactly listen to metal every day or anything but it’s always a great experience. Anyway every year (they’ve been doing the festival for like 10 years now) they build a skatepark (recently it’s been inside a cross shaped cage) and they get us to skate in it. We basically do demos for drunk dudes going to metal concerts in exchange for free VIP passes to the festival, food, etc.
Do you ever let people into the cage?
Yeah. We usually pick the ones with crazy makeup/costumes or the really wasted ones and invite them inside, make them skate, and make them embarrass themselves by taking some slams, haha. We’re drunk the whole time ourselves so it’s super fun.
Backside ollie in Paris. Ph. Maxime Verret
That sounds insane.
Yeah sometimes it gets a little out of hand. Especially during the ten to midnight ‘session’. Last year it looked more like a circus than a skate demo: we let loads of people in and we were using them for ‘stunts’. We even befriended a dwarf who kept coming back into the cage for every session. He kind of became our mascot and by the end of the festival he was getting frontside flipped over, haha. It was ridiculous.
I’d love to see the slams that go down in that cage.
Yeah it gets messy. Although the main issue is that the Hellfest is always at the beginning of our Antiz marketing tours.
What are they?
They’re like skate trips where we go to all the tiny countryside skate shops that stock Antiz to show how appreciative we are of their support and stuff. We skate with all the locals, check out some of their spots, etc. Only thing is good luck trying to get any kind of skateboarding done straight off the back of a metal festival.
Wasn’t
Dustin Dollin
with you guys this year?
Yeah he was. Well sort of… He’d usually wander off and we’d lose him for ages. Everyone’s so cool at the festival that it’s really easy to spend most of it with people you’d never met before. Especially if you’re Dustin, he’s like a child, haha.
Boardslide through the stoppers in Frankfurt. Ph. Maxime Verret
Did he come on the Antiz marketing tour as well then?
Yeah.
That must have been interesting.
Yeah! I reckon what must be tough for him is that he always has to live up to that whole piss drunk thing every time someone recognises him. I can’t imagine being the guy everyone is desperate to offer a shot of Jack Daniels to five seconds after meeting them. Especially when you are trying to recover from something like the Hellfest…
That would be horrible.
Yeah. Then again I guess he’s like the last of the Mohicans, but of the Piss Drunks. I kind of respect that. All the others became vegan, straight edge and are living the super healthy Californian lifestyle… He’s the only one to have stayed exactly the same. And he still skates!
Can handling someone with this lifestyle be quite difficult on tour?
Not at all! He’s always on tour so he knows what’s up. He never complains about anything. Unless maybe if we can’t get cold beers or rosé but he certainly never complains about sleeping conditions or food or anything like that. In fact, he doesn’t really eat.
What do you mean he doesn’t eat?
I guess I didn’t really see him eat that much on that trip, it’s not something he’s interested in at all. We’d try to get him to do it but it wouldn’t really work. He just wants to drink.
Ollie in Paris. Ph. Alex Pires
Where did you guys go on this trip?
We drove down the west coast of France, from La Rochelle to Biarritz. As I mentioned earlier it was tough because it came right after the festival but some of the spots we did manage to skate were unbelievable. Like at one point we skated this mould that was used to build ship hulls! It was mental. And later on we skated this cognac tank (in city of Cognac) that was basically a massive full pipe. Both of those spots were insane!
But we’ll never get to see the footage of those sessions because Ludo (Ludovic Azemar, the Antiz filmer) got all of his camera gear and laptop stolen right after the trip right?
Well there was a second filmer so there might actually be some footage of those spots, but yeah, the best stuff is lost forever.
Did you set up that crowd-funding thing to pay for him to get a new camera?
No actually one of his childhood friends did it and the idea was originally that the crowd-funding would be a secret, so that once they’d raised enough funds they could surprise him with the new gear. Only when I got the link to it I sent it out to loads of skaters who then straight away sent it to more skaters and in no time it was no longer a secret.
I had no idea it was supposed to be a surprise! We even shared it on the
Free
Insta hoping it would help him out.
Yeah it doesn’t matter though, at the end of the day he got enough contributions to pay for the new camera almost straight away and that’s what matters.
Yeah surely spreading the word is far more important than it being a surprise. What did you do after that then? Berlin for the trade shows and stuff?
Yeah, but I don’t have anything interesting to say about that – plus it’s already all over social media.
Frontside wall bash in Paris. Ph. Thibault Le Nours
Okay and after that New York?
Yeah I went to New York with Jake Harris, Mike Arnold, Casper Brooker, Chris Jones and Alex Pires to film for Jake’s new project. He’s working on a series of edits for
Thrasher
. One of them was supposed to be an NYC one, only since it was like 35 degrees every day I don’t think we got enough. So I’m not too sure what’s going to come of that…
And you just came back from that?
No I came back a couple of weeks ago. Since then I went to Evian where I spent some time with Hugo Liard. When Hugo left Antiz it was because he wanted to start living a completely different life, so he built himself a house out of wood, right by Lake Geneva and decided to live off the fruit and vegetables he’d grow in his garden. Antiz was sick for him because he started it, it was his brand, but the reality of running it involved him spending his life behind a computer and that’s no longer what he wanted.
Okay and you’re back in Paris now?
Yeah, I’m back at home trying to get the last few bits for the new Öctagon video that should be dropping with their next line. It’s not easy though because unlike with most other projects, all the clips have to be filmed by the Öctagon filmer (Joaquim Bayle). I can’t just go out and film clips with another guy and submit the footage, he has a very distinctive style… Plus they are super-selective when it comes to what spots we skate, it has to be a specific type of architecture: extremely modern. That’s why we pick cities like Dubai or Frankfurt for Öctagon trips.
Backside 360 ollie in Paris. Ph. Alex Pires
Is it easy to find that type of architecture in Paris? What areas are good for it? La Défense?
La Défense could work but it’s such a horrible place to be; it’s got the worst vibe… You’d think Paris isn’t a good city for it but areas are constantly being regenerated with the kind of ultra-modern architecture we are after. New buildings are always popping up with new spots… Which is good for us because it’s an excuse to go to areas we wouldn’t normally go to.
So how do you do it, do you have an Öctagon whatsapp group where you send each other photos of the spots you think could work for the clips?
Yeah exactly.
Are you still sharing that 7th floor ‘chambre de bonne’ (a tiny room where traditionally the servants of a French bourgeois family would live) with your girlfriend?
No we moved out; we were losing our minds in there! We aren’t as central anymore, we’re in Montreuil but at least it’s a bit more spacious. Plus, I quite enjoy the atmosphere; it feels more like being in a village than the centre of Paris. And I’m still just 15 minutes away from République…
Pauline’s favourite, back smith, Montreuil. Ph. Alex Pires
The people we feature in the mag usually tend to get most of their photos on trips but most of your photos for this interview were shot in Paris. Was it a conscious decision? If so can you explain it?
I guess I just got a bit frustrated by constantly having to film video parts when I’m on trips, so I’ve been trying to get stuff here as much as I can. I’ve been going on a lot of missions with Guillaume Périmony… On a trip you have a very short amount of time to think of a trick that could work at a given spot. You usually pick something you are certain you can do, as you probably won’t get a chance to come back to that spot. At home you know the spots well so you can put a lot more thought into what you want to do. It’s easier to produce stuff you are really stoked on. You can think of spots that suit your tricks. On trips it’s the other way around. Do you know what I mean?
Of course, that’s why guys like (Tom) Knox or (Nick) Jensen always film most of their parts at home.
Yeah exactly. Obviously you sometimes end up feeling like you’ve seen everything your city has to offer, but new spots always pop up.
Is all this footage you are stacking going towards something in particular?
Not really, it’s just that every time you are asked to film a part you are never given enough time to do something you are happy with. It takes like 2-3 years for me to film a part I’m actually going to be proud of, so instead of chilling and filming an Insta clip, every time I get the chance I try to go on a mission to film a proper trick.
Backside lipslide in Frankfurt. Ph. Maxime Verret
Paris has been through quite a lot of traumatising events this year. Do you feel like the atmosphere of the city has been scarred by what happened?
No not really. Obviously at first we were all a bit like ‘fuck!’, we’re their number one target and stuff but you soon realise that it’s much bigger than that: everyone’s a target. You can’t let that stuff affect you. I feel as safe as in Paris as I do in any other city. You can’t start thinking ‘fuck I’m going to a concert tonight, what if something happens…’ Nothings going to stop people from assembling in big groups and that’s a good thing.
Definitely.
Actually while we’re on the topic of large groups of people assembling the other day I got my first proper taste of the Pokémon Go phenomenon. We were skating around La Villette in an area that is apparently full of ‘rare’ Pokémon. I used to think it was just something that kids or proper geeks were into but I saw all sorts of people running around with their eyes glued to their phones, desperately looking for Pokémon. Seriously it was everyone from families with their kids in pushchairs to people who clearly just got off work to proper rude boys. Me and Joseph (Biais) were trying to skate these stairs and we could only try our tricks once every twenty minutes because of the constant stream of people rushing down them to catch creatures that don’t even exist. It was unbelievable. Why would you want to do the exact same thing as a million other people like that? I felt like I was surrounded by sheep.
It is a bit scary….
Very! Especially because they’ve put Pokémon in every corner of the planet! I went to a tiny village in the middle of nowhere in Italy and every single kid from that village was on that thing. They’ve even got Pokémon you only catch by boat… It’s crazy!
What have you got lined up for the next few months?
Early September I’m going on a RVCA trip with a bunch of artists and photographers. There’s going to be a show in Bordeaux with Ed Templeton, Ben Horton and a few other big names.
Are you going to be showing some of your photos there?
No I’m just going to be skating… I was actually supposed to have a little show in Paris that exact same week but obviously it’s not happening since I’m on that trip.
Have you ever had a photography exhibition?
No. It’s something I’d like to do, but wouldn’t really push for unless someone asked me.
That’s a shame; you’ve been shooting on all these incredible trips for so long now… The world needs to see this stuff!
I know… Especially since I shoot film, it’s a bit frustrating to just look my photos on a computer screen. I’d love to see some of them printed and hung up on a wall. I got my first film camera when I was fifteen so I’ve accumulated quite a lot over the last ten years… Especially on some of the trips I went on with Oscar (Candon), the twins and the Antiz guys.
Out of all these trips which ones have been the most memorable?
It’s hard to say… The Antiz ones where we camp and chill around fires in the evenings tend to be my favourite ones. Then there’s always the big Costa Rica/Nicaragua trip I went on recently, that was pretty incredible.
Kickflip at La Défense. Ph. Thibault Le Nours
The wild one you went on with Francisco Saco (South American filmer that lives in Berlin)?
Yeah, haha. I basically went out there on holiday with Pauline (my girlfriend) to surf, enjoy the wildlife/nature and stayed a bit longer after she left so I could skate with Francisco Saco who was filming a video with all the San Jose locals. Then from there I flew to Nicaragua to meet Jake Harris, Henry Kingsford, Mike Arnold and Sylvain Tognelli for a
Converse/
Grey
mission
.
How was that part of the trip?
Pretty interesting in the sense that we kind of freestyled it. I found out a week before meeting them that I was actually going on the trip and hopped on a 45 minute flight to meet them. It was one of those tiny planes with like ten seats in them. When I got there we didn’t have a van so we’d go around from city to city looking for spots in cabs (four in the back, one in the front). Sometimes we’d meet locals that would help us out; sometimes we’d just wander around hoping to come across something skate-able. Managua (the capital) had quite a lot of spots and a proper scene but some of the cities we hit literally had nothing. What we enjoyed the most was of course skating spots we knew hadn’t been touched before though. We found quite a few…
Were you stoked on the result?
Yeah Jacob’s video was amazing, especially for us, given it was full of incidental stuff that brought back loads of great non-skate related memories from the trip.
You’ve either been on a trip or skating your ass off in Paris for a while now. For how long exactly have you been just skating?
Five years now, basically since I quit university.
Do you not find it hard to stay motivated? Do you not get skateboarding overdose?
I was actually just talking to Val Bauer about that yesterday. I reckon it would maybe be good for me to get a part-time job. If you skate every day you just aren’t as hyped to skate as you should be. Plus more time in between sessions means more time to properly think about what you’d like to try, where you’d like to go…
Surely you don’t have to skate everyday though. As mentioned earlier you have other interests, couldn’t you focus on those instead of skating for a few days a week?
In theory yes, but that’s not how it works, skateboarding always wins. It’s impossible to resist. If you have a job at least you don’t have a choice, you’re forced to chill on the days you don’t work…
Would you do a job that would be linked to something you could then pursue after your skate ‘career’? Do you think about life after ‘pro skating’ much?
I don’t know… Not really. I mean I know this isn’t going to last forever… Unless maybe if I get into the Olympics, haha.
This is the full width version of Rémy’s 50-50 in Paris that was on the cover of Free issue 8. Photo by Maxime Verret
If you got offered to be in the Olympics would you do it?
Probably not, unless the format was something fun like a death race or some kind of hill bomb challenge, but it’s probably going to be a Street League type thing right?
I think we don’t know what it’s going to be like yet…
Either way I don’t like the fact that it’s going to be exposed to such a wide audience. I’d like to see what we do kept at least a little bit underground. Although if it was just mega-ramp skating in the Olympics I wouldn’t actually care. I wouldn’t feel concerned by it.
Isn’t trying to keep it ‘underground’ a bit of a selfish thing to want? Don’t you want other kids to discover skateboarding and enjoy everything it has to offer just like you did?
Yeah but there’s already a million kids that skate, I don’t want it to become the number one sport like it might be in America or something. I just don’t. Plus I don’t like the idea of the general public watching it and not understanding what it’s actually about, what it is for you and me. Just the fact that it’s a competition means it’s not an accurate representation of skateboarding. I don’t think it’s going to change skateboarding or affect me that much really but that’s how I feel about it.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  May 16, 2016
The Lucas Puig Interview
Lucas Puig in Bilbao. Ph. Sem Rubio
So we got in touch with Lucas to talk about Away Days and the interview went on for way longer than expected. So to keep it all in, let’s get right to it. It’s not like this guy needs an introduction anyway.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
Hey buddy how are you?
Lucas Puig: I’m all right… Just in Toulouse doing a load of physiotherapy at the moment.
Oh yeah I heard you hurt your knee again…
Yep. Tore my ACL again, same knee as last time.
So you’re getting another operation?!
Yeah, but since the Away Days premieres are quite soon I can’t get the operation right away.
So you’re just getting it after the premieres?
Yeah and in the meantime the doctors told me to do loads of physiotherapy so that when I do get the operation I won’t have lost all of my muscular mass. I can’t really do any sport between now and the operation so I’m strengthening all of the muscles around my knee so that it holds.
For how long are you going to be out?
About seven months. I’m going to have to be patient… At least I know what to expect since it’s already happened to me before. I’m not going to have a nervous breakdown… Plus it’s skateboarding, there are risks.
And it could have happened at a worse time. At least you’ve basically finished filming for the adidas video.
Yeah but when it happened I was still devastated. It came at a point when every time I’d go out filming I’d get footage, I could feel that I was going through a good phase and then boom I fucked myself. I remember thinking ‘damn it’s over, I’m done, I’m actually too old for this now’. But then I came to my senses and realised that the last time it happened to me was three and a half years ago and that I’ve been skating non-stop since then. It was inevitable. I maybe could have tried to skate a bit less, take better care of my body, eat healthy, do more physio, etc. But you know how it is; once you start skating again you’re transported back to when you were a kid. You don’t want to hear about stretching or physio or anything like that, the only thing that matters is going out skating with your friends.
Backside 180 heelflip in Bilbao. Ph. Sem Rubio
Did the knee give in because it was still fragile from the last time you hurt it?
No that’s the ‘good’ thing about this. According to my surgeon it was unavoidable given how I’d slammed, even with a brand new knee.
Do you get access to high profile sports doctors or physio-therapists through adidas?
I think I could if I wanted to but I have everyone I need in Toulouse right now. I have a good surgeon and I go to a rehabilitation centre that all these footballers and rugby players use.
I bet that’s interesting…
Oh yeah. Especially being the only professional athlete there. They all have normal full-time jobs, families and stuff but are REALLY serious about their sports (even though when they play them they play them at the lowest possible level). I guess that’s just because football and rugby are those kinds of sports. In comparison I’m super chilled about it so when they see me they’re always like ‘what are you doing? You’re a professional athlete, why don’t you ever do any press-ups? You should be working on your upper-body muscles, you need to be a lean, mean killing machine!’ I constantly have to explain to them that it’s not what I’m there for, that I just want to be healthy and keep skating for as long as possible.
If only they knew how most skaters treat their bodies…
Yeah! They’re already outraged when I tell them I’ve skipped breakfast before coming in.
Two worlds colliding.
Yeah. The best is the weird looks I get. Like they’re torn between jealousy and confusion. I’m a real enigma to most of them. ‘How did HE make it?!’
Switch frontside 180 heelflip in NYC. Ph. Sem Rubio
You happy to be back in Toulouse for a bit? It seemed like you were really non-stop on the road for this one.
Yeah it was quite intense… Plus you don’t even get to skate that much when you’re constantly travelling. It’s a bit frustrating. We only started skating a lot on trips towards the end.
Yeah but you’re kind of special, I swear you skate way more than most dudes out there.
No honestly it’s just that when there’s a lot of you on trips a big chunk of time gets taken up by waiting for people. Sometimes I’d feel like I was 14 again, just lurking at a spot eating crisps until everyone would show up… I hate looking at how many trips I’ve been on and how much I’ve chilled on each of them as opposed to skating/filming. Makes me feel like I’m not making any progress.
So you find it easier to film at home?
Yeah if you’re at home you just go to the spot were you want to try the trick with the filmer, lose your mind over it for a bit then it’s done. No distractions. Most of the time when I show up at a spot I know that the lines I really want will take over an hour and a half to do, so I often end up simplifying them or taking a trick out when I’m on a trip.
Because you’re afraid of ‘wasting’ other people’s time…
Kind of… It just puts you in a tough position, especially if you don’t really know if you can actually do the trick or not. Believe me when you’ve got Mark Suciu and Dennis Busenitz behind you waiting to tear up the spot, you don’t really feel like telling the filmer “want to film? I’m going to play around with a few of these, maybe I can do it”.
But you’re satisfied with what you managed to get though right?
Yeah definitely, especially since they’re just keeping the very best stuff. Although sometimes I can’t help but feel like it might not reflect my true level, like I should have set the bar higher. I bet when you see my part you’ll think ‘it’s cool but he can do better than that’.
I doubt I’ll say that, haha.
Either way we’ve been on loads of trips so watching it is going to bring back so many good memories! Having the crew out with you when you are trying something is the best. It brings a different kind of hype than when you are trying something alone. It can be so motivating.
You did look like you were having fun with your JLBees… Can you explain what that stands for?
It stands for Jet Lag Brothers. It’s this sick little thing Günes started on an adidas trip. He’s made hoodies and stuff but we keep trying to get him to make more.
Was the constant jet lag ever an issue for you on trips or did you somehow get used to it?
It was a bit for me because I put quite a lot of pressure on myself. If I’m on an adidas trip it’s to film and nothing else so if I can’t skate as well as I’d like to because I’m rinsed I get a bit bummed. It’s not the end of the world though. I’m getting flown around to skate world’s best spots so I can’t exactly complain.
It did seem like you went everywhere for this one…
Yeah I mean we hit Argentina, Brazil, Chile, The States, Spain, Croatia, London, China…
That’s insane.
Yeah… What’s sick is that they figured out that with such a big team it would make sense to split us into crews of people that skate the same shit. For instance they’ll organise a trip to Shanghai with a bunch of dudes that want to skate ledges because there’s loads of marble there – or a trip to the Basque Country with the dudes that skate bowls, etc. You don’t really end up with people that don’t skate the same spots as you.
That’s pretty smart.
Yeah it’s the brand’s German side. They are really good at the organisational side of things.
Nollie flip frontside bluntsilde to fakie in SF. Ph. Sem Rubio
So when I saw you in Barca last time with the whole team that was an exception?
Yeah totally. It was the only time we did that and you could tell it was difficult to manage. It was worth doing though. Seeing Mark Gonzales and everyone there in one place was incredible.
How did they decide who was getting sections and who wasn’t?
The main decider was just how difficult it is to film a proper full part just on trips. I think a lot of the guys from the European team will have shared parts but with only the very best stuff. They’ll do it in a way that makes sense though, like they’ll group the people that actually skated together over these last three years… Then yeah obviously there will be some full parts too as some of the guys really fucked shit up.
Who impressed you the most?
I’d say Miles and Tyshawn…
I heard Gustav Tønnesen got some mad stuff.
Yeah I mean anything he does is incredible. He’ll show up looking a little tired, you’ll expect him to chill but by the time you leave he’ll have filmed the best thing that can possibly be done at the spot.
Did they regularly show you how Away Days was all coming together?
Yeah. Right now they’re in the final stages of the editing process but before that we had this system in place where we’d mark our footage. A would be for the bangers, the tricks you really want in your part, B for the stuff you don’t mind them using, the ‘filler’ I guess and C for stuff that can go straight to the Internet.
And they are going to stick to what you’ve said?
To a certain extent… I mean you know how it is; it’s hard to be objective when it comes to your own footage. You tend to give yourself a load of Bs and Cs when really the stuff isn’t that bad.
What about music? Did you get to pick your tune?
Yeah but again it’s not as straightforward as that. Adidas being the huge company that it is, things get extremely complicated when it comes to acquiring rights to songs… Plus a lot of us wanted to use hip-hop tracks from mixtapes, only we couldn’t because the artists don’t have the rights to the instrumentals they use on those. So we could only use ‘official’ songs that have been on albums, stuff that’s on iTunes.
So if you want hip-hop it kind of has to be something relatively famous…
Pretty much yeah.
Switch backside heeflip in Stuttgart. Ph. Sem Rubio
Adidas have been pretty secretive about the way all this is going to be presented. Can you give anything away?
That’s normal though, you want to keep it a surprise! All I can say is that it’ll reflect the brand. Adidas is European and I think that’ll definitely come across in the way the video is made. It won’t just be banger after banger, there’ll be a lot of emphasis on the skaters’ personalities and probably some sort of little storyline.
Another thing is that quite a few of us have our own brands and that’s something adidas have really been trying to support. Günes has JLBees, Nak and Tyshawn have Hardies, Blondey has Thames, Jake Donnelly has Dads…
You have Hélas…
Yeah and for instance when we were filming the intro they told me to wear loads of it and even to get a box sent so that all the others could rep it as well.
That’s crazy. Brands usually do everything they can to get their riders wearing their products exclusively.
Yeah, here it’s the opposite. They’re encouraging us to use this video to boost our own companies. That’s what I was getting at earlier when I said the video was going to reflect the brand. You can tell they see things differently. Why try to hide that someone has their own brand? It just adds to the skater’s identity. We’re not robots…
Sounds like they are being really smart about it.
They really are. And they make time to explain all this to you. When you put too much pressure on yourself to get tricks they sit you down and explain that there’s more to it than that, that for them capturing the vibe is just as important, that I can relax.
I can’t wait. What about the Hélas video?
Oof… There’s a
new mixtape
coming out very soon but the big Hélas video won’t be for a while, we really want to release something proper. It feels like even more of an ambitious project than the adidas vid, haha. The fact that we’ve got about 75 dudes on the team probably doesn’t help… So yeah, we’re going to take our time with it but when it does come out it’ll be a heavy one.
So what are you going to do for the next seven months then?
Get my driving licence, do some work on the flat I recently bought, hang out with my girlfriend, take care of my mum, Hélas… The last chunk of that time will also be spent getting into shape. I’ll be cycling, running and stuff. I won’t be doing anything as cool as skating, but I won’t be bored.
It’s good, you’re being positive about it
.
Yeah. It’s just that sometimes it feels like the world stops turning when I can’t skate… I think about skating so much that when I try not to think about it, it does something horrible to my brain.
As I said earlier you do skate a lot. Even at the actual session I feel like you spend more time on your board than others.
Yeah it’s true, I’m always giving it everything I’ve got. Maybe it’s time to start taking it easy…
Unless you’ve got the
Luypa Sin
syndrome that allows you to keep going full speed ahead forever.
Nah he’s an anomaly. I really don’t understand how his body can still function…
Any plans for when you get back on your board after that?
I’ve been focusing on adidas for a while now so I’ll probably start working on some Cliché stuff again. It’ll be nice to get back in the van with those guys, share a six-pack with Flo, listen to Gégé’s (Jérémie Daclin) stories…
Thanks, I think we’re good. See you in London for the premiere!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 7, 2021
Charlie Munro Interview
Backside 50-50
When you get older, as a skateboarder, you think fondly of your early years starting out. You think about those first times venturing into the city without parental supervision, the first time you landed a kickflip down some stairs, your first boardslide on a handrail, hours and hours in a car park spent with your friends trying to learn backside tailslides and so on. Chances are these were your teenage years and those were the times for most of us where we learned the majority of the tricks we still do today. So when Charlie Munro told us he’d quit skating from age 13 to 18 I was shocked. Like, for real?! How can this guy be this good whilst missing out on those vital years of skateboarding development? Charlie told us (Nick Sharratt, Justin Biddle and myself) this lesser known fact about his life as we sat in London Fields on the warmest March day of the year drinking beers and listening to stories in what was to become Charlie’s interview. A few days later I saw Charlie and he told me he had been skating for 30 days straight. Again I was floored… I guess he’s making up for lost time.
-Will Harmon
Photography in London by Sam Ashley
Interview by Nick Sharratt, Justin ‘Juice’ Biddle and Will Harmon
Nick Sharratt: Alright then Charlie, you grew up in Cambridge, how did you get introduced to skating?
Charlie Munro: My older brother introduced me to all the homies that lived on our street. When I was like seven I started going out with my brother and the homies that lived opposite us had a skateboard, a BMX and all that stuff and I just thought skateboarding was the sickest thing. My brother was into it for a few years…
NS: So he stopped and you just carried on?
Yeah I just carried on with his mates actually.
Justin Biddle: That’s what happens when you get better than your brother boet!
(Everyone laughs)
To be honest I think I was just that annoying kid that wanted to use everybody’s skateboard, because I didn’t have a skateboard and I used to hassle people and then after a while I got a hand-me-down from my brother. Eventually I got a proper board too.
Frontside 180 switch crooked grind
NS: And you stopped skating for a little bit right?
Yeah for like five years. So I would say I got my first board at eight and then skated until I was 13 and all of the guys I was skating with were going to Uni, as I was skating with all the older guys, and then it was just me and my mate Kizaa (Saito) who were left. He was my best mate back in the day and we’d go skate like every day and then slowly it turned to three days a week and then to once a week and then eventually nothing at all. And so I just didn’t skate for five years…
NS: So you started again at 18?
Yeah, towards my 19th birthday actually.
Will Harmon: And how old are you now?
29.
WH: That’s pretty incredible.
JB: Those years are crucial!
Yeah it’s kinda fucked.
WH: Thirteen to 18, that’s when skaters learn like everything! So what brought you back into skating?
So I was thinking about it all the time. I was working full-time; I was doing seven days a week to be honest. I was going to college three days, working with my dad for two days and then I was working at Halford’s for two days a week. So I was working seven days a week but constantly talking about skateboarding to my girlfriend at the time and she was like, ‘just buy a skateboard! What are you doing? You talk about it all the time!’ And I told her I didn’t have time for it, but she convinced me to buy one and then eventually I started skating so much that we actually broke up because I just wasn’t hanging out with her…
(Everyone laughs)
WH: She convinced you and then…
Yeah it’s kinda gnarly; I was just so into skating when I picked it up again that I just
blew her off all the time. It’s kind of sad, but it’s whatever you know, I was 18 and that’s what I was into at the time.
Frontside kickflip
NS: What standard had you gotten to at 13 when you quit?
I nollie heeled London Bridge at 13 before I quit.
WH: What!
JB: Yeah you should see the clip!
WH: Ah wait I did see that
on Instagram
!
JB: He was better then than he is now ha ha!
I was 100% better then for sure dude!
WH: Griff (James Griffiths) said he heard this story where you turned up to the skatepark after you had quit skating… You turned up as a little chav and you had Air Max’s on and you took someone’s board and you crooked a big round handrail or something?
They were adidas Nizza’s actually; they were sick. But I did crook this rail that I would never try now. It was this really long low rail with a kink at the end. It was like four metres and I just had no fear. It was the first time I skated again. It was at this skatepark near Cambridge in Arbury. It’s kind of weird to think about how I’d approach stuff back then, I just wasn’t scared at all.
Fakie kickflip. Manchester. Ph. Reece Leung
NS: So that was when you were 18 and then I think a lot of people found out about you (who didn’t know you) through Get Lesta.
Get Lesta is a bunch of homies from up north who are keen to skate and film stuff. They link up every weekend. So when I got back into skating I went to Milton Keynes and met (James) Bush, Swampy, (Rob) Selley and all of them boys and then that linked me into meeting Callun (Loomes) and all the Leicester boys. I didn’t really come to London much, I dunno, I was driving at the time and so I just started meeting up with those guys all the time. At the time it made sense: I’d go stay in Milton Keynes or I’d go stay at Callun’s in Leicester and we’d just skate all weekend. I was working five days a week then so I’d drive to MK or Leicester on Friday night, skate all weekend, then drive home Sunday night and be up at seven the next day for work. Sometimes I’d drive to Sheffield on a Sunday morning, which is a three and a half hour drive, skate there all day, then drive back.
WH: Sounds like what I used to do in America.
Sounds like a nause up, but I used to do it every weekend and I was so fine with it.
NS: So all those
Get Lesta parts
you had were filmed on a weekend?
Yeah, Saturday and Sunday mostly. I was working full-time. But yeah, great times with the boys for sure. I haven’t seen any of them for a long time to be honest.
JB: We snatched you. We took Charlie bro…
Yeah I didn’t have any homies in Cambridge that skated anything other than skateparks. I just wanted to skate, so I would just go down to Milton Keynes; it made perfect sense.
Frontside boardslide
JB: But I remember when we first met and then that’s how you started coming to London isn’t it?
Yeah we met in Copenhagen.
JB: My man had tight jeans, some silly Lakais on… I’ll never forget it!
WH: Tell us the story Juice…
JB: Shaun (Witherup) and I were on a Levi’s trip in Copenhagen and we knew Mikey (Patrick) as he’d just got on Levi’s and he was like, ‘I’m gonna go watch my homie skate this rail,’ and we knew this South African guy going to skate the same spot, so we all just went. It was kind of like set in the stars if you can say that? So we went with Mikey and my SA homie Brendan was there and I saw Charlie there, said what’s up, we got the introduction and Charlie was backtailing this 9-stair rail…
I was just so hyped to be out of the UK and skating…
JB: And then boom he landed it and I could just feel like there was somehow this naughty vibe with me, him and Shaun…
WH: You saw the glimmer in his eye…
JB: Yeah ha ha… When I’d come through customs I had bought a litre bottle of whiskey and I brought it to the hotel Levi’s had gotten us so I told Charlie to come back to our hotel room later that night after he’d finished skating. He did and we just drank that litre of whiskey and then it was over!
I mean from that day we’ve been inseparable since then basically.
WH: This was 2017 right?
Yeah…
Kickflip 5-0
JB: Yeah and then Charlie and Mikey started coming up to London every weekend. They came for like eight weeks in a row…
It was more like six months!
JB: Yeah well it was a long time; it was chaos!
And then eventually me and Mikey moved here (to London) together. But Justin you kind of built the bridge for us to make that happen. I was never going to move to London if I didn’t have mates here already, so you made me feel more comfortable…
NS: So you didn’t just move to London to make it in skating?
No, I moved here to be with friends.
JB: We were egging him to come move here.
WH: And then when did you finally move here Charlie?
May 2018. Nearly three years, that’s crazy!
WH: But in that time just before you moved here you already had some good sponsors no?
I was riding for Lakai when I would visit and stay with Juice. I would also sometimes stay with Nick the Bastard (Nick Richards) and then I ended up going to
Hong Kong with him
. There in Hong Kong I met Anthony Claravall and long story short: if it weren’t for him I wouldn’t have gotten on New Balance.
WH: Was it hard to quit Lakai?
It was hard because Matt (Anderson) is definitely a good friend of mine. He’s a great dude, but there were a few promises made to me and so much shit that was spoken about that never materialised. We went on a Lakai trip with the US dudes and it was kind of a mess. But the silver lining of riding for them is that’s how I met Mikey. After that Lakai trip we became best mates. He’s from Kent and I’m from Cambridge and we had this amazing connection between ourselves. I’d call him like every week and we’d talk for at least an hour about whatever, and then we’d meet up in London together. It’s kind of nice how it all worked and then in a few months Mikey and I are moving in together, I don’t know if you know that.
WH: Mikey was saying that yeah, sick.
Yeah I’m stoked.
NS: I mean it’s hard to spend an hour talking on the phone with Mikey and not fall in love with him ha ha.
He’s the best.
NS: So maybe the diplomatic way to say this is that the way you wanted to enjoy your skating was kind of going in a different way than the Get Lesta boys’ way of skating.
Yeah for sure…
WH: And you saw more of a future with your type of skating at New Balance than with Lakai?
Yeah 100%. (Dave) Mackey and (Mark) Baines are obviously the best humans and it just felt right. Also it made sense as Manny (Lopez) and I were becoming good friends and he was already getting bits.
Ollie over and into the bank
NS: It sounds like all of the sponsors you got and all of the things you’ve gotten through skating have just been organic.
I guess yeah…
NS: You’ve not chased anything.
I’ve never asked for any sponsor… Actually, other than you! (Nick owns/runs Palomino skate shop)
NS: Yeah but that’s basically how people skate for the shop: I just get bullied into sponsoring people!
(Everyone laughs)
JB: Nick’s the only dude you have to ask to ride for! Please let us ride for you bro! Ha ha!
It’s just like the best shit and I wanna represent my boy you know!
NS: Cheers mate. So how did Primitive happen? There are not really teams that are much more stacked than that and would be a more intimidating thing to say yes to.
Originally it came from Wes (Morgan) at Rock Solid. I think they were looking for a dude in the UK and they hit me up. And I was skating for my homies’ board brand Milk at the time, but people were leaving for whatever reason so Wes hit me up and I said I was down to try and see what the boards were saying and then as soon as I said that he was like, ‘Ok cool the boys are going to come over.’ This was in like 2015 or 2016 I dunno, and the brand was so new at the time I didn’t know what to think.
WH: But it was just a UK distro deal at the time right?
Yeah UK distro; not much pressure. Then when Wes spoke to the dudes at Primitive they must have been hyped as they ended up sending Devine (Calloway), Diego (Najera) and Trent (McClung) with Kev Perez over on a
week filming mission
with me and the Get Lesta boys. And that was within a month of saying yes to getting boards from Primitive and then they were over here skating with us so I was like, ‘fuck, that’s amazing.’ And because they made that much effort, that’s the reason I was down. And everyone I’ve ever dealt with in that brand has been so fucking rad and generally a really nice human.
Backside tailslide
NS: Well it seems like with Primitive they’ve really looked after you; you’re not just the UK flow dude.
There was a period of time when I wondered if it was the best option, because think of the dudes that are on the team you know! I can’t compare to that shit…
JB: Yeah but when we were out in LA they took us to the parties and all around; they’re the fucking best dudes man.
Yeah, as everything goes, I owe so much to those dudes man. Oli (Oliver Barton) is always there if I want to talk to him and he always makes time for me. Oli is a huge driving force as to why I love Primitive so much.
NS: So in a way having Oli there and speaking with him kind of took the intimidation away from riding for Primitive?
Yeah for sure. I had a call with him a few months ago that really resonated with me. He was like, ‘everything you’re doing is exactly what we want; don’t change anything. Just do everything that you’re doing right now and that’s perfect.’ And from January they started paying me; it’s banging!
NS: So are you making a living now from skating, a liveable wage?
I am. I mean there are still some contracts that I haven’t signed from other sponsors, but it’s looking good yeah.
NS: Do you think Primitive are going to put out the first all ginger dual part with you and Giovanni (Vianni), ha ha?
Fuck I hope so ha ha! I’d be so down; Gio is the sickest! Would be a nice little transition too: UK and then Brazil. It’s completely different.
Ollie from platform into the bank
NS: Three of your main sponsors (New Balance, Primitive, Levi’s) are ones that some people might be sceptical about their motivations and yet these three really hook you up the most and look out for you. And Levi’s we haven’t talked about, but as far as the European team they seem to have the best crew and you can attest to this too Justin… It’s a gang!
JB: It’s a good squad man.
Yeah we’re all friends and they’re all great dudes man.
NS: And all those companies deserve credit where credit is due as they supported you throughout this last year, even with no real trips, through the pandemic. Because we all know some of the bigger companies out there have just dropped people last year like, ‘ah sorry it’s tough times…’
For sure yeah. I feel super lucky.
JB: Gents I’m sorry I have to go sort something for work on my work laptop at home.
All good mate, you gotta do what you gotta do.
JB: Charlie bring the boys to the yard after!
Yeah alright.
Switch overcrooks
WH: In a bit mate. Later Juice!
(Justin leaves)
NS: OK I feel like when
Cover Version
came out it was like a little marker in the history of British skateboarding. It was purely independent…
WH: All filmed in the UK…
Mostly all in London too…
NS: And it was pure motivation too. Motivation for skating and creating something…
And we all just fed off each other too. (Dan) Magee being Magee, you know what he’s like, he’s such a little bastard, but in the best way. He motivates you in a way that’s different to most people you know? But within that the whole crew just kind of fed off each other and it was sick skating with Korahn (Gayle) and (Sam) Murgatroyd – I love that dude; Sam’s the best.
NS: And again, totally organic. No cynicism in creating the crew, the crew just created itself.
100%, and the only reason I was included in the video is that I randomly met Manny who was filming with Magee one time. I hadn’t even said hello to Magee yet and we are at this hotel in Vauxhall and Manny tried this rail. The security guard ran out and tried grabbing his board and I just snatched the board out of the security guard’s hand and I just laughed in his face like, ‘good luck mate!’ And then after that Magee was like, ‘yo, that was fucking sick! Let’s go film a clip!’ And then we filmed a clip that same day and after that he was just like, ‘let’s get it!’ And then I wasn’t in London at the time, I was driving to Epping, an hour and 20-minute drive from Cambridge, then jumping on the end of the Central Line to head into central. I’d hang out with them boys all day, go skate and whatever, and then go back to Cambridge. I was still working full-time then. I eventually quit my job as they (Dan Magee & Kevin Parrott) kind of forced me to, ha ha.
WH: What was this job?
I was an estimator for a building firm. I was going to Uni one day a week, studying construction management, which could lead on to surveying and all that’s stuff. Sort of like an apprenticeship thing: working four days a week and then one day studying that stuff at Uni. I’ve always… I mean I’ve been working on site with my dad since I was 13 you know? It’s been second nature in some way; it felt natural. So I was kind of leading into that stuff but the whole time I was just thinking about skating. Whenever there was a sunny day I’d just be staring out the window like, ‘fuck this work!’ you know? So I had finished my first year at this Uni and I ended up getting this award or some shit and they contacted my workplace and told them that I had done so well in Uni and then I got called into the office and they put a contract in front of me to sign with them for seven years. And I was like, ‘dude I don’t know what I’m gonna do tomorrow let alone in seven years’ time!’ and I ended up quitting my job that day and I think they were kinda bummed.
Taildrop to backside lipslide
NS: Has your dad supported that journey you’ve taken?
WH: Yeah has your family been supportive of you just skating now?
Uhh… My mum’s always been super supportive, but my dad it was only lately that he was like, ‘oh shit he’s actually surviving on his own in London with skateboarding.’ So until just recently he was always really sceptical. In hindsight the best decision I ever made was quitting that job, but at the time, I was unsure. And then within six months from then I moved to London.
WH: And into the Zol Mansion!
NS: Yeah do you want to talk about the Zol mansion and explain it to people that don’t know?
The Zol Mansion was this old derelict building in Holloway that… To be honest if it wasn’t for that maybe I wouldn’t be in London right now. It was a live-in guardianship, super-cheap rent and a way for me and Mikey to get into London. The building was an old Army barracks and it was like a full skate house. We had so many homies stay there; we had all the Texas boys (Roger crew) come through, John Shanahan and his mates… It was a complete shithole, but there was room for everyone. At the time it was amazing, there are some very fond memories from that era, but I’m so glad I’m out of that place now.
NS: Any good stories from that place?
It had a cover (in
Grey
)! We actually shot a Palomino ad on the roof as well! As for stories there’s none that spring to mind that are safe for here, but I know Trizzo (Tristan Rudman) is working on some bits for an article somewhere along the line.
NS: How many people actually lived in that place?
There were 23 rooms I believe, but I mean fuck there were four people living in my room at times so who knows how many people were actually there.
WH: What about the impromptu parties on like a Tuesday night?
Ah man it was kinda hectic. I’m definitely guilty of initiating a weekday wave at times, but you know when you’ve been out skating all day and when you get home you just wanna chill, have a cup of tea, smoke a spliff, watch some TV and go to bed, but then I would walk in and there would be a bunch of homies in my living room listening to music and drinking or whatever, and it’s not like the walls had any acoustic value, so yeah you’d just have to get yourself involved or sit there one door away pissed.
Switch frontside shove-it
NS: I feel like Mikey got picked on the most there.
WH: I remember seeing some Instagram stories of you guys going through this bag of his shit and just rinsing him, ha ha!
NS: The one with Mikey trying to go to bed and his bed is filled with Monster drinks!
Ha ha yeah! I used to work for Monster… Ok this is a good story: we used to have this blag towards the end of our time working there, and depending on who you were working with… So we were working for Monster and we’d have to go give samples out throughout London, but what we’d do is I’d drive to the office from Holloway, fill the van up with loads of Monsters, drive into central London and for the first hour drive to like four different spots and just get photos of giving out drinks to just a few random people. Then we’d drive back to the house and literally sit there all day smoking weed, playing PlayStation and every few hours just send photos to our boss like, ‘ah yeah we’re here giving out drinks. This is how many we gave out…’
(Everyone laughs)
But we’re at my house, smoking weed playing video games and chilling, ha ha, and then by the end of the day I live right by Camden and people there go crazy for Monster. So we’d go to the office in the morning at 10am, send photos like every two hours and then head back to the office at five so high, probably shouldn’t have been driving, and then we’d pull up in Camden and in like ten minutes 1000 drinks would be gone. People were so pumped! Then we’d drive back to the office, gave them the keys back for the van, and we were like, ‘ah yeah it was a good day, people were happy,’ and just talk complete shit to them and fucking yeah, they never clocked on.
WH: That’s so good, ha ha!
Yep! But I should also add that having that job at Monster was the reason I was able to live in London at first. That was my income at first; it was like £100 a day or something. That job is what kept me afloat for the first year here.
Switch frontside crooked grind
WH: You’re working on a part with Kev (Parrott) to accompany this interview right?
Yeah a
Free
x Primitive part. It should drop sometime in the summer after this interview is out. We just want to try and film a vibey part. It’s something we’ve obviously worked hard for, but just skating you know… Because I feel like
Cover Version
was amazing, but you watch one clip and you miss the next trick, do you know what I mean? It was edited so quick as that’s the vibe they went for, which was amazing, but I definitely don’t want this part to be like that. I just want it to be different.
NS: Again it comes back to what we were saying before; you’re doing a part for this huge company (Primitive), where you might imagine it’s like, ‘you need to do this; you need to do that’ but you’re allowed to go out there and just do a vibey part and that’s what it is…
Yeah maybe it’s because they know I’m out doing stuff all the time, but I’ve never felt any pressure from Oli or Taylor (McClung) or none of them guys. They just seem super happy with what I’m doing, which is a blessing really. I feel better than I ever have done…
NS: If people could see your work ethic… I mean I suppose it speaks for itself.
I haven’t had a day off for ages. I mean yesterday was my day off but I still went skating…
WH: You skate every day?
Now I do, but in the Holloway/Zol Mansion days no way; I was skating three days
a week.
WH: You had to recuperate from the party…
Yeah I was partying too much. Now I’m on a schedule. I just skate… Especially because if skating is kind of what I’m doing, I’m gonna focus on that. You know what I mean?
WH: Yeah totally. I think someone mentioned you were learning coding?
Yeah obviously it’s been a bit hectic trying to get this interview done. I’ve been out with Sam (Ashley) and Kev or Sam and Quenno (Quentin Guthrie) like every day that we can so I’ve been super focused on this, but I was studying coding for like a month during the second lockdown. My girlfriend actually just got onto this coding camp course, which she’s done super well on. It’s like a seven grand course and she managed to get a scholarship to get on the course. So she motivated me to want to learn. Just everything that comes with it… It’s basically just problem solving. I mean there’s a lot to it; I don’t know fuck all to be honest, but it’s interesting. But as soon as I feel like I have a bit more free time, I’m definitely going to jump back into coding.
Kickflip, Paris. Ph. Sam Ashley
WH: Do you feel like this is something you’d get into years down the line after skating?
Maybe, but to be honest I’m learning it just because I find it interesting.
WH: Tristan said to ask you about the Haggerston fight.
Oh that was fucked up…Yeah so this was the Zol Mansion days, we left the Haggerston pub, walking back home, super drunk, and I remember walking past this bunch of people and for sure they called me a wasteman. They said something, and me being me, and especially because I was drunk, I turned around and said, ‘what the fuck did you say?’ And then they were like, ‘oh we weren’t talking to you.’ And then I was like, ‘oh ok, fair enough, sorry,’ and then I walked off and then the next thing you know I hear footsteps coming from behind me, I turn around and then someone started punching me. And then there’s six dudes trying to beat the fuck out of me.
WH: Who else was with you?
Shaun (Witherup) and Tristan were there, and bless them they fully stuck up for me, but we all got fucked up to be honest.
WH: Six against three yeah…
I mean at times it was six of them against just me. I remember running around cars thinking, ‘ok I can’t fight six!’ So I’d run around a car and fight two and then I’d run off again and then after five minutes you’re so tired…
NS: You said it went on for a long time?
I mean I was so drunk and I remember it being so wild. There were all these garbage men on the road I remember as well it was like that early in the morning. I was running around cars trying to fight them and shit and then I remember all six of them just on me at one time and I just gave up. And then the next thing I know I wake up in the hospital. Or I woke up in the ambulance sorry…
Backside nollie 180, Paris. Ph. Sam Ashley
WH: Fuck! That’s gnarly…
And then I remember we went to the hospital, me and Tristan were there I don’t know where Shaun went, and they were taking so long, so we were like ‘fuck this!’, discharged ourselves and we went straight home and there was blood all over me and I was like over it. And weirdly enough I was supposed to meet Steve Douglas for the first time the next day. And he calls me in the morning and he’s like, ‘hey man,’ in the nicest way, as he is, ‘hey man you alright? What time you want to meet today?’ And I’m like, ‘ah dude… Today’s not a good day. I got myself in trouble last night.’ And he’s like, ‘where are you?’ and I’m like, ‘I’m at home.’ Then he’s like, ‘send me a location, I’m coming!’ So I’m like alright, so he comes to my house and as soon as he sees me he goes, ‘dude, I’m taking you to a hospital right now.’ So Steve and I got in an Uber and got to the hospital…
WH: I’m sure Douglas is no stranger to brawls…
You know the beautiful thing with that is? It was that Ben Raemers came and joined us in the hospital. It was me, Steve and Ben and that was one of the last times I saw Ben and he sat in the hospital with me all day waiting for me to get stitched up from the bullshit that happened the day before. I had to get some stitches in my chin… I still have a scar. But them two being there helped so much… You know what I mean?
WH: Yeah…
It’s a weird thing to think about. I’d never met Steve before and the only connection I had to Steve was Ben. It was such a weird scenario to happen, but such a beautiful one at the same time. So the silver lining of that is: yeah I got fucked up, but I wouldn’t take it away because I got to spend the next day in hospital with two great individuals… That’s a memory for me you know!
NS: Do you think Ben taking his own life and everything that’s happened in London skating, and skating in a wider sense, in the past 18 months… Also skating seems so less macho now with so many more women and trans people skating and it not being just white dudes… And the terrible thing that happened to Ben, well people are prepared to talk about their feelings much more right?
It opened up all of our eyes. There’s no good in being silent about something you know? That’s one thing we learnt from that situation. If there is a silver lining it’s that if you have something going on then talk about it with your friends no matter how hard it is.
Ben
definitely, whether he meant to or not, brought the whole skate industry closer. And it’s a sad thing, but a beautiful thing that happened. Skateboarding needed that change, but it didn’t need that to be there to make the change.
NS: Well that’s not ‘if there’s a silver lining’ that is the silver lining.
Yeah 100%. I openly talk to my friends about anything, you know… I feel so open with my friends now and I think it must be the same with everyone else or I’d like to think it is. All my friends are very open. If you’re not open with your friends then who are you open to?
NS: And everyone has experienced this past year in a different way. People ring each other up just to like, ‘how you doing mate?’
Yeah just to chat, check in and see what’s going on. It’s been a difficult year for everyone of course. I’ve had my moments for sure. But my friends are the reason I’m still up.
Nollie into the bank
NS: Yeah boy!
(Nick and Charlie give each other a fist bump.)
And you have to be that person for your friends too you know, even if you’re feeling shit or whatever, talk about it. Definitely me and Juice, we’re so there for each other. So many gnarly things have been going on in both of our lives and if we weren’t there for each other we’d probably be losing it. Obviously him and his family and I’ve got shit going on with mine, but us having that connection helped so much and it definitely keeps us on the right path. He keeps me on the straight and narrow but also, ha ha, he keeps me on the straight and narrow but also fucking hell he gets me into some shit ha ha!
WH: That’s a good friend right there!
He gets me into some shit but also I know he has my back 100% and that’s everything. How about a toast to my friends!
Everyone: Cheers!
Cheers to Benny Boy, we love you.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 10, 2017
Shaun Witherup Interview
Blue Steel
‘Yoh! I got stories!’ Is what Shaun Witherup said to me when I told him I needed to interview him for the mag – and indeed he does! Leaving behind the muggings and mayhem of South Africa more than a decade ago, Shaun now calls London home, but the hi-jinx hasn’t stopped.
Photography by Sam Clark
Interview by Will Harmon
Shaun, you grew up skating in South Africa, whereabouts? Who did you skate with?
I grew up in Durban, SA. And back then the crew was Mike Sutcliffe, George Van Blerk and some other guys.
And when did you start skating?
I started my first year of Durban High School. I don’t know if you remember Snoopy?
The dog?
No, ha, George Van Blerk, he used to be a pro on Death Skateboards and he moved from South Africa to England. So I ended up buying some trucks off of him. And then yeah I started skating and then we became nemeses. I got good and it would be me against him in the comps and stuff and he just wasn’t stoked anymore. (Laughs) You could say we kind of fell out.
So when and why did you move to the UK?
Because shit was just fucked up… Before I was 16 I had been mugged more than ten times at gunpoint, stabbed, house broken into numerous times, etc. But the final straw was I came home from school and found our maid tied up and our whole house was empty and she had been beaten. So my mum was like: ‘this is it! There’s no point.’ We had British passports so it didn’t make sense to stay there anymore. It’s just not safe. So we ended up moving to Liverpool.
Just you and your mum?
No she sent me over first as my aunt and uncle were there in Liverpool so she sent me up there and then I ended up skating for Lost Art back in the day.
Backside lipslide in Cape Town, South Africa.
Ah sick! Was that your first sponsor?
No no, I got hooked up in SA as I was skating the comps and shit. I used to ride for an SA company called Island Style. But Lost Art was the first in the UK. Mackey is a G!
All of my friends from South Africa have a crazy SA story of something sketchy that has happened to them… Got any more aside from the burglary one?
The maid one was gnarly, but there’s more… Once I got mugged in broad daylight coming home from the beach at a bus stop. It was 2 o’clock in the afternoon and three guys came up to me and two guys put a knife in my back saying ‘give me your shit!’ One dude was like ‘gimme your watch,’ and the other dude’s like ‘give me your jeans!’ So I had to take my jeans off and give them to this dude! So I’m standing there in boxers with 20 people around and no one is helping. People just don’t want to get involved. But I actually got my stuff back though, which is kinda fucked up. I ended up calling my mum and her boyfriend was this gnarly Hells Angel dude, he had bought me the watch. So I told him what area it was and somehow he found they guy, asked him what time it was, and then sparked him one (punched him) and robbed the dude back. Strange one…
Whoa! That is crazy. So what was it like when you first moved to Liverpool?
A bit of a culture shock man! Durban is kind of like a beach city and I rocked up in Liverpool wearing a Hawaiian shirt and blonde hair… I got put into this really tough public school there with tons of scallies and scousers… All the dudes wanted to fight me and all the chicks wanted to go have a drink with me. (Laughs) Guys just wanted to fight me all day long. It was a bit of a fucking shock for sure…
And then how did you move to London?
Liverpool was cool; it was a bit small and you know a lot of my friends were getting into the wrong shit like doing too many drugs and going down the wrong path and I just didn’t want to get stuck in that kind of way. So I just decided to move down to London and see what was up and give it a go.
Can you tell me about skating for King Clothing and being in an ad with Dan Clarke and Skepta being chased by a dinosaur?
Yeah that was a strange one… Ha ha. How did you see that? They said it was just going to be a photo of us wearing the clothes or whatever; we were just in a studio. But then it turns out in the ad there’s a dinosaur or some crazy shit. It turned out to be something I didn’t want to be involved with.
So you met Skepta back then? I guess this was before he was big…
Yeah that was before he was big… I met this Wretch 32 dude too. He was on King as well. He was a grime artist. It was a cool company that helped me out with flights and stuff, but I don’t know… It just wasn’t for me in the end.
You studied shoe design at London College of Fashion, took a few years off, and now you study menswear fashion at Central Saint Martin’s. How did you get in to CSM? It’s one of the most respected fashion universities in the world, can you tell us a little bit about studying there?
I think I blagged it to be honest dude… I guess because I designed shoes from before, but it didn’t really go the way I expected it to; I had a few job opportunities, but it didn’t really pan out the way I thought it would. So I just skated for bit then I decided that I wanted to learn more about garments so I could maybe start something later or work with somebody like that. So yeah I just applied to CSM and I got in after a few interviews and showing them my portfolio. I think the guy just liked me because I was a skater and not the usual fashion school type.
Frontside 180 in Cape Town.
And you got a scholarship?
Yeah I got a special scholarship for mature students. They are more lenient to help you out and stuff. Yeah so I just finished the first year.
So I know you were down at Southbank one day, and you made a statement, and this statement has forever changed the vernacular of a lot of London skateboarders… Do you know what I’m talking about?
Sission! (Laughs) I was down at SB one day and I speaking to Lev (Tanju) and I guess not many people had heard it before and Lev asked me what I had gotten up to last night and I was like: ‘Ah I was sissioning this chick for hours and hours man.’ And then he just started laughing and then it just started going everywhere and everyone started using it: sission! So that’s how it all started, just mainly because of Lev telling everyone about that story. Sission this; sission that!
And I remember you had a job as a lifeguard at Shoreditch House… How the hell did you get that job and did you ever save anyone?
Dude I just used to chill there and drink Mojitos on the side. I pretty much did nothing. The only thing I saved was a few iPads and iPhones when people dropped them into the pool. I just took them out and put them in some rice… Oh wait I did save a kid once… Some mum was on the side drinking or whatever and her kid just went under and was swallowing water so I jumped in and dragged him out. There were times when there were kids and shit, but most of the time you are just chilling there getting tanned, speaking to people and meeting hot chicks…
The pre-Tinder days…
Yeah… Ha ha. I had to quit Tinder. It was just too much. Too many matches… (Laughs)
Kickflip to fakie in Ysterfontein, South Africa.
You must have some good stories though… Care to share any?
Well this wasn’t through Tinder, but it’s a dating story… OK so I was with Tomek (Lipiec), and we ended up going drinking at some bars and we meet these chicks and bring them back to Tomek’s place. Anyway, these chicks leave, whatever, and Tomek and I crash out in the bed. Then like two hours into our sleep we get woken up… I get smacked in the face like two or three times… I’m like ‘what the fuck?’ So I open my eyes and there’s three big Lithuanian dudes that Tomek lived with that are kinda like on a gangster vibe. They were like: ‘Ah you brought prostitutes here! What the fuck!’ And we’re like: ‘No dude!’ So they are shouting at us in Lithuanian and one of the guys starts laying punches into me. I’m sleeping in my boxers and then I go down to put my sock on and he gives me an uppercut!
Whoa!
Yeah, so I land on the bed and then this one dude who had just gotten out of prison picks up a Stanley blade that was used to grip boards and Tomek and I are just stood on the bed against the wall and they’re like: ‘You gotta go! Grab your shit!’ And one of the guys is still laying into me and punching me, and he tells me to leave out the window. Three of them began pushing me towards the window, and it’s like a two and a half storey drop into the garden, and they chucked me out. Then as I’m laid out in the garden, two minutes later Tomek comes out with a bag of shit, he’s been beaten up as well, they just kicked him out. That’s one of the gnarlier stories.
So where did you guys go from there?
We just sat in the park for two hours. Tomek had to go to work that day! That was a mad one.
Indeed! Speaking of stories, I feel like you have some injury ones. You get injured a lot not even skating right?
Yeah mostly out partying. I just have a few beers then end up not giving a fuck. Yoh! OK yeah there’s a good one about having to get stitches in my hand. So I was at the Macbeth I think, and shit got wild. I ended up having a fight with the bouncer and he ended up cracking me one. So I had a split eye because we were skating outside like a ton of us… Anyway I had borrowed my friend’s bike that night and after all that shit started kicking off I realised someone had stolen his bike. So all my friends started to cycle home so I decided to just follow them skating real fast. So on the way home, after having a fight and my eye was bleeding, I come around a corner and put my hand on a fence. A spike just goes straight into my hand, and I didn’t know it at the time, I just keep skating down the road like ‘where is all this blood coming from?’ So I check my hand and it’s ripped to shreds. Anyways I go home and see Tomek and I ask him: ‘Dude, do you think I need stitches?’ He’s like: ‘Yo! What the fuck!’ My hand is nearly spewing it’s so bad. It’s super deep and to the bone.
‘I’m gonna call you an ambulance,’ Tomek says. So he’s calling 911 for like half an hour and it’s engaged. Every time he tried to call the number was busy so he’s like: ‘I don’t know what fuck we are gonna do! We need an ambulance!’ So we finally go online and realise the number for an ambulance is 999. (Laughs)
No way! Ha ha!
Yeah so finally the ambulance comes and they took me to the hospital. I’m super-drunk at this point so they drop me off at the hospital and they tell me: ‘Sit down here and somebody will come and get you.’ Ten minutes later I fall asleep, it’s like five in the morning and then I wake up at 10am. ‘Why the fuck am I in the hospital?’ I think when I wake up so I stand up look around and guess that I must have been super-drunk. So I leave and I walk up to the bus stop. I put up my hand to flag the bus down and I suddenly realise my hand and how fucked it is. So I went back to the hospital and stayed there another six hours and they stitched me up and shit; thirty-two stitches in my hand.
Jeez!
Yeah that was heavy. I ended up going skating on a Big Push a week later with all these stitches in my hand.
Backside nosegrind pop-out in Cape Town.
What a story! So I know you went back to South Africa for the photos for this interview. Where did you go to and what did you get up to?
I just stayed around Cape Town and travelled around there. Cape Town has good spots and everyone I pretty much know from South Africa has moved there. We had a few near misses with police and fights and shit like that. I ended up losing like three set-ups when I was there… Just through madness. Cape Town is wild.
I know you spent some time there, but why not move to Barcelona?
I was living there last year for like six months, which was a crazy ordeal… I think I nearly died by being eaten alive by bed bugs. Yeah it was this homie’s place… I was there six months and then I came back to start uni. That’s why I’m here in London. Once I finish uni I’ll see what’s up then.
How did you link up with
Familia Skateboards
?
Basically Gav (Gavin Morgan) hit me up. I’ve known his brother Steph since we were young; we used to skate together in South Africa. I film with their other brother Andy and Gav pretty much runs the company. So Gav just hit me up and asked if I wanted to be involved. At the time I was riding for Girl through the UK distro so I decided I’d rather be involved with something small, closer to home, with SA dudes and people I’ve known for a long time. Yeah it’s a good vibe; I’ve been riding for them for maybe like eight years.
What are you working on at the moment?
Yeah I’ve been trying to film every single place I go to, but the majority of the footage we want to have for the video. We are working on the Familia video so we want it to be really strong.
Congrats on the recent pro board!
Cheers dude.
Anyone you want to thank?
Big thanks and love to my friends, family and sponsors. Special thanks to Gavin Morgan, Dan Lawrence, Justin Biddle, Ivan the Great, Andy Morgan, Tom Beever, Ryder Nel, Bryce Campbell, Carl Richardson, Phil Brown, Yann Horowitz, Loucas Polydorou, Ann Sophie, Sam Clark and Henry Kingsford! Much love to you guys at Free Skate, Parlour Skate Store, adidas, Hélas, Familia, Levi’s, Riders of the Zol and my amazing mum! Sission!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 3, 2021
The American Dream (part 3 of 6): Geoff Rowley
The American Dream
is a series of six interviews with European pros, looking back at their experiences of moving to California to pursue skateboarding careers.
360 flip, Oceanside, 1994. Ph. Dave Swift
Interview by
Neil Macdonald
So, you saved up and paid your own way to the US, as an 18-year-old kid, right?
Geoff Rowley: Yeah. I’d finished my fifth year of school and my last year’s results really weren’t great. I hadn’t been very focused because in my head I was wanting to move to the US to skate. I actually wanted to go earlier but I was kind of forced to repeat a year of school to keep things healthy at home, with my parents… My dad was pressuring me to get a job and I was breaking down a bit. I didn’t know what I wanted to do with my life; I thought I was moving to America and then it wasn’t happening… So, for twelve months I was kind of in limbo, saving up money until eventually I went out.
Was your
Transworld
cover the first photo you shot in the US?
I think so, yeah. That was maybe a couple of weeks after I moved to the US. They were on deadline and Gullwing really needed a photo for an ad, so since I was right there at
Transworld
Dave Swift was like: ‘You ride for Gullwing, right?’ And I went, ‘Umm, yeah, I think so’, so we went skating and then they put the picture on the cover and I never got a Gullwing ad. Actually, I think I did get a Gullwing ad… A pop shove-it on the same day, but yeah that’s how they put the 360 flip on the cover.
Was California the first place away from home that you’d lived?
Yeah, absolutely. I lived with my parents until I got on a National Express coach from Liverpool down to Northampton where I stayed for a few days, and then flew from London to the US. I’d never lived away from home, so it was a big deal. I did travel a lot though, probably more than your average kid in England. Every single weekend I was at a different skatepark or city.
All the Liverpool skaters, to their credit, weren’t afraid to get on the train or the bus, and I still do it like that now. It’s the mentality of, ‘If you don’t go, you won’t know’. You have to jump in the van. Otherwise, you’ll be left behind on some quiet Sunday. Sometimes we would meet at the train station without even knowing where we were going…
You’d have known Wig (Worland) and Skin (Phillips) from the UK, and they both went on to shoot for
Transworld
. Did that help?
Yeah, it was helpful. The foundation of
Transworld
was well and truly set when I moved here, and they had some fantastic photographers working for them. Skin and Wig were contributing at that point. Wig is one of the best photographers ever. Wig’s so damn talented that it’s not even funny. I’ve been around a million photographers over the years, and Wig is special.
Some people don’t value imagery, they don’t value photography, they don’t value content. I’m around photographers and videographers every day and if they aren’t happy and doing a good job, I can’t exist. I could only exist to skate for me, which is what I’d do anyway, but I can’t do my job and I can’t do anything of what I do on a day-to-day basis without those guys being up and running. If we lose guys like that, where are we?
Since day one I’ve known that if those guys are in jeopardy, then I’m in jeopardy. If those guys are worried, what can I do to help them? If those guys are underpaid, how can we shift the scale? If a person like me who’s in a good, stable place, can’t say that Wig is one of the best photographers to ever come out of England, we’ve got a problem. He’s that good.
When people in the UK hear a Scouse accent there’s a bit of, ‘right, here’s a Scouser. He must be hard’, but did that exist in the US? Or were you just ‘British’ in general?
Stereotypes exist everywhere. Especially if you’re at a place where there’s alcohol. Somebody always thinks the English guy will be that movie stereotype with bad teeth who isn’t afraid to get into a fight. We know it’s not really like that, but when you get beaten up so much as a kid you have to stand up for yourself because you’re going to get beaten up anyway. That’s why the mentality is different in the US to the UK. If you threaten someone in the US, they’re going to start pushing and shoving you, if you threaten someone in the UK they think you’re going to hurt them… It’s slightly different.
I’ve been in bars before where guys have just walked up to me, put me in a headlock and walked me out the back of the bar, and I’ve never seen them before in my life. Just because they thought it was funny. So, there’s a little bit of that… You’ve gotta just kill ‘em with kindness.
Nosebluntslide, Oceanside, 1994. Ph. Dave Swift
Was there any hostility from skateboarders?
If you’re asking if people were hostile because we weren’t from around there, or we were new to the industry, then yes, absolutely there was. I’d go to contests early on with Jeremy Klein and Ed Templeton, guys that were already outcasts to some degree. A lot of the ‘cool guys’ during that period weren’t cool to Ed and they weren’t cool to Jeremy. They weren’t cool to guys like that because they thought they weren’t as ‘fresh’. And you know how that goes… It’s a joke, so you have to laugh. Kill ‘em with kindness.
It did happen a few times at comps, where some guy would be pointing at Jeremy and going, ‘why are you here?’ Big pro skaters doing that, guys you’ll know. Then pointing at me and going, ‘and who’s this guy?’, but I didn’t give a fuck. Would you have given a fuck if you were in that situation? I was skating with Jeremy Klein! Jeremy Klein rules!
I had a lot of fun skating with Jeremy. He took care of me and drove me all around. He’d pick me up to go skate at eight o’clock in the morning and we’d finish skating in the dark, at night. He was a hardcore skater, the same as Ed. I just wanted to skate with the dudes who did it for the right reasons, even if some of those guys were ousted to the side a little bit, or just different characters, individuals. And I wanted to be around that. That’s what skateboarding is to me. It’s for individuals and everyone is accepted.
Also maybe in the early days of Vans some people were like, ‘who’s this guy, coming in here and doing stuff?’, but whatever. I’m not there to damage someone else’s life; I’m just there living my own.
Was the thought of having to pay for your own healthcare an issue?
Healthcare? I only wanted to make sure I had cereal, cheese and bread. I wasn’t thinking of my health one bit. I’d moved to a foreign country, and I was foreign. I was a headless chicken and I just wanted to set my foundations and feel comfortable, and I didn’t for a while.
So, it wasn’t all, ‘I’ve made it out, let’s go!’
I’d moved all the way across to the other side of the world, and it did feel weird for a while… I didn’t settle straight. My skating sucked for the first two years. That, I do know. I remember thinking, ‘why do you keep doing the same tricks every day? What the fuck’s going on?’
Before I moved to the US I was progressing so much. For the last two years before I moved, I really felt that every time I’d go skate I’d be trying and doing and learning stuff all the time, and it was because I was getting stronger as a person, you know? My ollies were getting higher every day because I was growing. I didn’t even recognise that. And then I moved to the US and I didn’t really know how to ride down those streets, or how to pop my tricks, and I started thinking about that, so I got into a really weird rut. That happens to a lot of people when they move to the US from somewhere in the world, with big dreams. They have a few months of just getting the tricks out and then just go, ‘what do I do now?’ because they want to keep progressing and the environment’s not the same. Then they go back to their hometown and they never really do it. There was definitely a crazy breaking-in period where I was just not learning any tricks.
Kickflip, Poway, California, 1996. Ph. Dave Swift
It’s been talked about quite a lot how you basically thought the stuff in videos and mags was normal skating, and when you showed up you could do all those tricks, but did that only last a couple of months?
Kind of. I just know that my progression slowed down as soon as I moved to the US. In the last two years before moving to the US I wasn’t filmed a lot, but I shot a lot of photos with Percy Dean, or Nicky Ryan or Kingy. But no one had a video camera. The video guy we had in Liverpool, Kevin Banks, had kinda stopped shooting for those last two years before I moved to the US. I would love to see footage from then, if anybody had filmed it. Just to see what an innocent, fragile teenager looks like on a board! Ha ha! Shane O’Brien filmed some footage, he filmed Tom and I down at Southbank, but the footage was lost. We were doing stuff there that was on the level of what we were doing when we moved to the US, but that’s long gone.
So those first couple of years were exactly what they were: kids moving to a foreign country and not knowing what was going on but trying to skate. That was all I had. What else did I have? I didn’t have a girlfriend; I was only just getting into that stuff. Honestly, I give all of my thanks and love to Ed Templeton because he just wasn’t a dick. He wasn’t a dick and he poked at young Geoff and basically went, ‘hey, whoever the fuck’s inside that skull, get him out!’ and I appreciate that. That changed my life. He could have been a dick, or just not available. Same with Jeremy Klein. They didn’t have to accept this guy with a ridiculous accent from Liverpool, but they knew I was a skater and all I wanted to do was get my head down and skate. If I didn’t have those influences around me I’d have probably just come back to England and taken a different path.
At that time in the UK, if you met another skateboarder, you’d almost automatically become friends with them because they were a skateboarder. I imagine it was different in Southern California.
I didn’t hang out with anyone when I first moved here. I’d only skate with Jeremy Klein and Ed, and whoever they were skating with. So if they were skating with Bam, I’d skate with Bam, then become friends with him and be able to skate with him on the weekend, or go visit him.
It happened slowly like that. I didn’t gravitate towards anything, and I didn’t have any foundation until I made the foundation.
It’s important that people know that being good at skating isn’t all you need.
I was terrified, Neil! Living with 13 people in a little shitty two-bedroom apartment that smelled weird and was mouldy. I wasn’t getting paid properly, nothing was down on paper and I didn’t know what was going to happen. I was scared. When I came home at night, I didn’t have anything to comfort me, and I came from such a great, loving family, and then all of a sudden, I didn’t have anybody around me. I just had a skateboard, and I didn’t know what to do with it.
I rode really wide boards and big wheels as well. I remember thinking when I went to the US, ‘I want the biggest wheels, the widest board and the biggest trucks, and I want to do the biggest shit!’
Ollie, Huntington Beach, 1996. Ph. Andy Horsley
How hard was it to keep in touch with your family? And with UK skateboarding?
At that point there were no cell phones or pagers, and not even a home phone. You’d have to use a payphone, with a pile of quarters? And where do you get quarters? To get quarters you’d have to have a bank account! So, I’d save quarters like crazy, then skate to the nearest quiet payphone late at night to call my parents until my quarters ran out then I’d get sad and go home. Then it’d be another week or two before I could afford two dollars to make a phone call. It was quite lonely.
People don’t need to move to California to make it in skateboarding anymore, do they?
No. It’s different now. That was a different time, and the skateboarding world wasn’t global. The world wasn’t connected then, but that time has gone.
The culture was born here, in Southern California, so if you like that history and what it represented, you should move here, but you can make your own decision now. Beforehand, you couldn’t. If you’re smart, you can (make it in skateboarding and) live wherever you want.
What would you say to anybody thinking about moving their life to the other side of the world?
If I think of a kid sitting at home in his bedroom with a dream, I don’t want that kid to lose that. Whether he fails at it or not. I want people to know that I was that fucking kid. I was terrified. I loved skateboarding but I didn’t know if I was good enough to do it, but I did it, and that’s all. Don’t be afraid to fucking go for it.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 30, 2021
The Gates of the Underworld
Jeremy Jones, backside carve, London. Ph. Rafal Wojnowski
The Gates of the Underworld
Words by James Davis
The skateboarder carves out a set of tasks so futile and painful they can only be thought of as punishment. They willingly suspend themselves in an eternal, impossible lesson with no teacher or exam, but a psychotically severe marking scheme that cannot be challenged.
The perilous journey begins with a decade or so of progress, a pleasant time of optimistic intention and growing confidence. But beware this is no more than a long season of unusually fair weather. A deceitful honeymoon in which tomorrow offers promise it will never deliver. Like a war you thought would end with you on the winning side. But no.
Accomplishments during this deceptive period are many but fleeting, and rarely enough. The knowledge of what can be done instead, or what can be achieved next time, or improved upon, or slid longer, or ollied higher, slowly infects the psyche until a distorted dissatisfaction takes hold. The rate of improvement eases off imperceptibly, and previously automatic skill hangs in the balance. Suddenly things are no longer automatic. Fear is unwillingly nurtured from laughable irrelevance to terrifying shadow. The peak is marred by this growing poison, mistakes creep in. What was easy yesterday will be difficult tomorrow. The light at the end of the tunnel turns dark, replaced by the gated entrance to the underworld.
The underworld is death. An eternal and – for most – an unpleasant after-life. Hades’ unseen realm of apocalyptic horror is the last place you want to be and for mortals it is completely unavoidable.
Except for Sisyphus.
The King of Corinth was a famed trickster, a wily rogue with selfish intentions. His refusal to conform and willingness to transgress canons of normality strike a chord with many, his murderous urges less so. A known irritant to the gods due to his grotesque familial behaviour and betrayal of Zeus’ secrets, Sisyphus’ first encounter with death, or Thanatos, was already an overdue comeuppance.
Yet Sisyphus the mortal defeats Thanatos the god by harnessing his arrogance. He tricks Thanatos into demonstrating the inescapable shackles intended for Sisyphus upon himself, thus trapping his nemesis for days and inadvertently preventing other mortals from dying during this period.
Akin to locking a security guard in his sentry box and having free reign of the spot for a week.
The Olympian gods were not happy that a mere mortal had cheated death, and after rescuing Thanatos from his own shackles they sent him back to complete his mission. This time Sisyphus was better prepared, and after concocting a ruse with his wife to disrespect his body after death – in so doing to disrespect the gods – he willingly accompanied Thanatos into the underworld.
During his descent, Sisyphus plots a meeting with Persephone. A key figure in the mythological interaction between the earth, the sky and the underworld, Persephone rules this domain of death alongside Hades. We have Persephone to thank for Autumn and Winter. Her initial abduction by Hades so depressed her mother Demeter, Goddess of the Harvest, that nothing would grow on earth until her daughter was found safe. After a controversial and disputed agreement, Persephone spends the warmer half of her eternal years on earth, and the other half below the surface.
Her annual, inescapable retreat to the underworld marks a seasonal pilgrimage we all face. To seek shelter, to adapt to an unwanted environment in order to meet our needs. To take root. To find a dry spot in a filthy car park we’d desperately avoid from May to September.
Sisyphus convinces Persephone to let him return to the mortal realm of the living by demonstrating the damage to his body – and perceived disrespect of the gods – as a way to supposedly punish his wife for this invented insult.
While this was simply a ruse to escape the underworld, because it involved a contract with a god, it was far more successful than his devious shackling of Thanatos. As a result Sisyphus was allowed to return, and lived in peace on earth for decades more. He continued to prosper – against the wishes of the gods – until his wife died, and the binding contract with Persephone that allowed him to remain free was finally broken.
The mortal reluctantly prepares to face death for a third time. Sisyphus has no escape plan now; he knows his time is up. But Zeus, king of all the gods, oh he has a plan alright. He has been waiting years for this.
Deep in the underworld for the final time, Zeus presents Sisyphus with a challenge. If the mortal can roll a huge boulder to the top of an enormous slope, he will be freed, and made immortal. But if he fails, he is destined to try forever to achieve this task. Forever, no escape. No other existence is possible until the boulder is at the top. Sisyphus, a strong king who cheated death twice, is not one to reject such a simple challenge, and willingly accepts.
We know the rest. It is an impossible task. The boulder becomes too heavy, the slope becomes too steep, Sisyphus too weak, however many times he tries – for all of eternity – it cannot be done.
The skateboarder is familiar with Sisyphean tasks. It takes forever to land some things, and others will never be possible however hard we try, however repeatedly we attempt. Other aspects seem familiar to skateboarders too. Sisyphus tricks a guard (Thanatos) and destroys his body in his quest to avoid death. He repeatedly crosses the irreversible threshold of the underworld and somehow comes back alive.
His final punishment is one we have all chosen. French philosopher and novelist Albert Camus was captivated by this absurd contradiction. Between the existential void of meaninglessness, and the promise of transcendence.
‘The struggle itself towards the heights is enough to fill a man’s heart.’ – Albert Camus,
The Myth of Sisyphus
Long may we embrace this struggle, best played out at the gates of the underworld.
It’s our only hope to cheat death.
(click below for gallery)
View Gallery | 10 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 23, 2021
Samurai Safari – Fuga vol. 2
Video by Jon Wolf
Photos in Sardinia by Federico Casella
Words by Arthur Derrien
‘When we got back we all had
Cast Away
syndrome. I even made my wife sleep on an air mattress on the balcony one evening… Think she wasn’t really feeling it though. Something about knowing that there was a comfortable bed just a few metres away…’
That’s Jon Wolf. Originally from New Hampshire but now residing in Berlin, he’d initially made the trip out to Milan to film with Jacopo and a few friends for a couple of weeks, only that turned into two months and ended up encompassing what would later be referred to as the ‘The Samurai Safari’, aka Jon’s first ever skateboarding/camping adventure. Him, Jacks and Gio Grazzani – one of the owners of Samurai Suicide distribution who helped ‘organise’ this trip – were kind enough to share some of their memories from it, which I’m going to attempt to piece together in order to give you an idea of what it was like to drive all the way around the coast of Sardinia, knowing very well that both sleeping and skateboarding spots would be a gamble every step of the way. A gamble where the odds were set by how recently Google Street View had been updated in a given remote corner of the island, which as I’m sure you can guess are not great odds.
Jacopo Carozzi, backside 180 fakie 5-0 back to forwards
The first thing I asked them was to paint me a picture of what it was actually like waking up in this context (thinking it might be a good starting point) but I quickly realised that it was a bit of an impossible request given that they practically never slept in the same spot twice (other than the time they got moved on by the police but we’ll get to that later). What I did find out though was that they basically had close to no idea where they were actually sleeping until they poked their heads out of their tents in the morning, which a lot of the time meant some lovely surprises – they spoke of a night spent on a cliff that overlooked an old abandoned lighthouse and of various dreamy deserted beaches – but also of a few pretty ridiculous scenarios. The story of them essentially waking up in a giant cat litter surrounded by stray cats is pretty nice (they’d accidentally set up under a shelter used to feed them), but I think my favourite is probably still Jon telling the crew ‘fuck it, this place will do’ on the first night, only to realise as he woke up that they’d set up camp on what was basically the world’s biggest ant mound, that his tent was completely covered in the little fuckers, and that some of the lads were just sleeping in hammocks! Namely a – somehow rather unphased – Martino Cataneo, or ‘Kelly Skater’ as he was nicknamed on the days he’d let his hair down (both literally and symbolically).
Simone Verona, backside hurricane
On days like these under absolutely no circumstances would the flip-flops get swapped for skate shoes, and the main goal would be to slowly but surely get extremely cooked. It should also be pointed out that the only other notable personal possessions he rocked up with on the first day (as in other than the hammock, the flip flops and the skate shoes that we’ve already mentioned) were his skateboard and the already pretty dirty shirt he was wearing, which of course said ‘Samurai or Die’. Oh and apparently to not smell his technique was to just regularly shave his armpits, some sort of old Lugano tradition according to Gio… A far cry from Jacopo’s approach to the nomad lifestyle, which supposedly involved having every possible bit of camping kit, including some kind of elevated bed/mattress situation (yet he still managed to sneak in a few mid-trip Decathlon sessions).
Mauro Caruso, backside nosegrind
Now by all accounts one of the highlights of being on a trip like this is that pivotal moment when you realise that you no longer give a shit. Like at all, and about anything. It’s an epiphany that was of course reached at different points by different people (Tino showed up with that state of mind already fully activated by the sounds of it), but I think it’s Jon’s account of it that I enjoyed the most: ‘It’s that moment when you realise that you’re past caring,’ he explained. ‘That if something has to happen it’ll just happen, and to all of us. It almost made me not want to go on normal trips anymore; this over being stuck in a hotel room for hours waiting for someone to deliver weed any day.’
Jacopo Carozzi, frontside ollie, Milan. Ph. DVL
It must be said though that this level of Zen was probably facilitated by a lot of the people they came across, including the police, seemingly being on a very similar tip. I’d like to think that a turning point for the few that were still giving a tiny bit of a shit at the beginning of the trip was their 2am ‘altercation’ with the Polizia, which essentially involved them being moved to a better place to camp (the only place where they stayed more than one night) and kindly signalling to them that a slightly fried member of their delegation (some had been interrupted halfway through the rolling of the final joint before bed) had dropped their ‘ganja’ – as they described it cracking up – and should pick it up. You can easily see how the concept of ‘worrying’ would have maybe not followed them to the next spot…
Alex Borgatti, frontside smith grind
Okay this is a bit all over the place (which I guess is kind of fitting given the nature of what’s being discussed) but one thing that we should probably mention is the actual skating. Or maybe not the skating itself but the hundreds of spot pins Jacopo had saved on his phone to form a loose itinerary. And by loose I really mean extremely loose, like once they decided they wanted to loop around the island they basically just picked a direction along the coast at random and drove.
Schianti Lepori, frontside ollie
Anyway, like with the camping spot hunt, although the Google Street View approach at times showed mixed results (and in one instance led some of them to trespass somewhere with a sign explicitly saying you could get shot if you did) they also found some absolute gems. Notably a huge abandoned water park complex (okay not completely abandoned if you count the donkeys that were bobbing about and the homeless guy that had figured the place still had running water but they were sound), a bloody natural rock quarterpipe that was directly on the beach just metres away from the ocean, and what judging by the footage has to be one of the best – yet virtually unknown – plazas on the planet: Hotel Europa. Located in Vasto, just five minutes away from the beach, this place had so many different kinds of ledge/slappy curb/rail configurations that despite having its own very active scene, half the shit these boys hit had until then not even been waxed up.
Mattia Turco, frontside 5-0
I want to say check out
@hoteleuropafinest
to get an idea of what we mean, but if your jealousy levels are anywhere near mine right now (it being depressingly grey in London today + not having any prospect of escaping is really not helping) maybe don’t bother or you might find yourself in sketchy EasyJet impulse purchase territory real quick. In fact I’m going to wrap this up before I make any rash decisions I can’t afford (how are these crooks still getting away with making people pay £150 in PCR tests to travel abroad?!). Plus by the time you read this we’ll have released a second episode in Jon’s
FUGA
video series, which will be dedicated to this whole wild escapade, and will undoubtedly do a way better job of conveying just how magical of an experience it was… Especially if he ends up using some of the b-roll/hi-jinx footage Guglielmo Strobecchi shot along the way (anyone holding the second camera automatically got nicknamed that as the Fat Bill head/feet zooming rapidly spiralled out of control); apparently that stuff is meant to be particularly ‘immersive’.
(click the gallery below for more of Fede’s photos)
View Gallery | 3 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  April 25, 2019
Jacopo Carozzi Interview
Nollie 180 switch crooked grind back to regular, Fontane Bianchi. Ph: Sam Clark.
The interview you’re about to read took place in London. Jacopo had been gathering photos for a while and the trip was basically his last chance to get anything in before the deadline. Predictably it rained almost every day for a week. Less predictably, on the one day that it didn’t, he trapped a nerve in his back as he was tapping his Oyster card on the way to the first spot. He was in so much pain that at one point he had to lie down on the floor and was struggling to breathe. It’s easy to imagine how taking yourself out in such a ridiculous manner (especially after not having seen dry ground for days) might affect the morale. On top of that, since all we do in this country is go to the pub when we can’t skate, it was decided that pool would be the replacement activity. Pool… That famously relaxing pastime for people with fucked backs. Completely oblivious to all this and not even considering that it might not be the best day for it, I told him I wanted to record his interview then and there. Guess how he took it? He thanked me, repeatedly telling me how grateful he was to be given this opportunity. It blew my mind… a) because it finally hit me
that he’d probably been having the worst day ever, b) because nobody ever does that, and c) because in this particular case I really felt like I should be the one thanking him. He’s already had the cover, he’s already been asked by Reynolds to be in Baker 4, he’s already going on trips with Koston…. It’s not like he’s desperate to come up; he’s basically already made it. Anyway with that in mind here’s Jacopo, not in his first language, and on a ‘bad day’. It should give you a pretty good idea of how much of a legend he is.
– Arthur Derrien
Have you had an interview in a magazine recently? In fact have you ever had a proper interview?
Jacopo Carozzi: I had one in
Kingpin
but that was ages ago when I was living in Australia.
Oh yeah I forgot you did a stint over there! What was the deal with that?
I don’t know, a bunch of my friends from Italy were going over so I thought I’d check it out. I ended up being there for like eight months… I was in Melbourne mostly.
I bet you loved it.
I did… But I think Australians were a bit weirded out by us to be honest. It was quite a big group of us, all Italian, all sleeping in the streets most of the time…
Sleeping in the streets?
Yeah I mean we didn’t have a place to stay the whole time we were there so we’d camp or sleep in playgrounds or on beaches… We’d just skate every day and travel around. It was really fun.
That is a long time to be doing that…
Yeah. At first my Visa was just for three months, then I extended it to six, then at the end of that I broke my wrist so had to stay there a bit longer to get surgery.
How did you afford to live out there?
I was already getting a bit of money from Nike.
And you were how old when you flew out there?
I was 17. Thinking back on it now I can’t believe my mum let me go, ha ha.
How old are you now?
22.
Backside nosegrind, Rosolini. Ph: Sam Clark.
Ok so apart from that brief period in Australia you’ve always been based in Milan right? Is that where you’re originally from?
Yep, Milan born and raised!
When did you start going to the train station?
Probably like nine years ago or something. It’s been there forever though, like the OGs have been skating it for a very long time… Before that I used to only skate this indoor park and I remember everyone would complain about me only skating there. They’d call me out for never skating street and I’d be like ‘this place isn’t going to be here forever so I don’t care what you think; I’m going to enjoy it while it lasts.’ And I was right, it was only there for like four years and we haven’t had one since. So now I’m almost every day at the train station. Even on days I’m not skating I’m usually there just to hang out…
Last time I was there most of the spot wasn’t even dry and there was still like 20 skaters, I couldn’t believe it. Is it like that every day?
Yeah pretty much.
What would you say spending time at the plaza taught you that being locked up in that skatepark didn’t?
The first thing is it made me realise how lucky I was to have a huge free space we could skate every day like that in my city. There aren’t that many left in the world… We’re all super proud of it. And there’s so many guys that have gotten really good just from skating those round ledges.
Skating aside, you also learn a lot just from spending so many hours in a place like the train station, which is obviously quite dangerous. I mean these days it’s a lot better but back in the day it used to be so sketchy. You’d see dudes shooting heroin, so many fights, people getting robbed… Nobody really fucks with us too much though because we’re there every single day and it’s not really like we have anything that would be of value to the dudes causing trouble. Plus the plaza is kind of divided, with certain groups having their own sections. Like we’ve got the left side when you’re facing the station, then the drug dealers have another bit, the homeless people have another bit…
Nollie heelflip Indy, Cagliari. Ph: Joel Peck.
I was actually going to ask you why nobody skates that other side. (Editor’s note: If you’ve never been to the spot, everything you see in videos is just from half of it. The exact same spot
is replicated and brand new, virtually unwaxed, on the other side of the plaza.)
I’m sure we’ll move over there at some point but what happened is that they skate-stopped the plaza a few years back, first by putting fences all the way around the spot so you couldn’t even get to the ledges, then with metal caps. At first we broke through a bit of the fence so we could skate just five metres of the main ledge, then we made that whole section skate-able. Since this was the only part we could skate, all the other groups that use the plaza got to pick a zone from the other sections. What’s funny is that after we did that they asked us if we’d rather have a skatepark or the train station and since we said the train station they just let us be. The police just leave us alone, even if we’re smoking weed, drinking beers or whatever they never come and give us shit because they kind of know we’re regulating that side of the plaza, keeping
it safe.
Also having older guys there that are always keeping you aware of certain things is amazing. It’s taught me a lot… We have this one guy called Sudan, he was one of the first people to skate the place and he sees everything that’s happening on the plaza. He can seriously see from so far away ha ha! We call him eagle eye. He’s always looking out for
the kids.
If you guys would see anything sketchy go down do you ever interfere?
It has happened… I used to see this group that would repeatedly rob Asian tourists and it got to the point where I couldn’t just stand there watching it without doing anything. So I went over once when it was going down, grabbed one of them, put them on the ground and gave the person their phone back. I sort of made it seem to the tourist like they weren’t actually stealing from them, that it was all good… I think that happened a couple of times actually. Usually we try to stay out of it though.
Nollie kickflip backside nosegrind, Columbus, Ohio. Ph: Ben Colen.
Who do you hit up to go skating? The Stinky Trouble guys?
Yeah pretty much. The first person I call if I’m going skating is
Bobby (Aref Koushesh)
. He was in Australia with me; that’s where Stinky Trouble started.
What’s the story behind the name?
We were in Nimbin, which is a small village up in the mountains, where weed is legal and they have a big-ass skatepark and after a week of sleeping in playgrounds there we were like, ‘fuck we can’t do this anymore…’ so we decided to sneak into a hotel. We’d hidden our bags in bushes and so for a bit they really thought we were part of the hotel. We were like ‘damn we’re pulling this off!’ Until at one point we both took our shoes off… We instantly looked at each other thinking: ‘there’s no way we’re getting away with this now…’ And we didn’t ha ha. They instantly caught on to us and we had to run away ha ha. You have to remember we’d been homeless for a while at that point and that it’s hot every single day in Australia. Our feet would be like steaming after every session! We laughed about being ‘stinky trouble’ so much that it ended up becoming our crew’s name. We even made ourselves some beanies and shirts and stuff…
And you put out all those clips too right? Do you make those?
Yeah I learned how to use After Effects and straight away got really into it.
What about some of the other stuff you do, like all those
distorted photos
?
Ha ha, I don’t really know what to say about them… It’s hard to explain, they’re just images that look interesting to me.
Crooked grind through the kink, Cagliari. Ph: Joel Peck.
Like
little smoking aliens
?
The Alieni Piceni! That started when me and Yoan (Taillandier) were in Ancona (central Italy, by the sea) filming for this downhill part. The
Piceni
are a population that lived there in the Bronze Age and if you look them up, the most famous representation of them shows them looking like these dope little aliens. I liked them so much that I started drawing/painting them on stuff while I was out there…
I’ve been told to ask you about neon lights. I heard you’ve developed some sort of addiction?
Ha ha, I guess you could say that. When I moved into my new place I decided that I wanted to make it as comfortable as I could. One day I walked into a store and found a disco light for really cheap, so I thought I’d try it out and as soon as I plugged it in I was like, ‘damn being in a room like this is sick! It’s like the party room now’. Then I got addicted, ha ha. I just needed more and more and now I’ve got different coloured neon lights in every corner… I’ve got a bunch behind the TV that reflect off the walls, a big reflective Stinky Trouble logo: it looks crazy. The first few times I had people over I had no idea what they’d think but people seem to love it!
I guess your room looking like a nightclub leads me on to my next question: you’ve recently started DJing right? Can you tell us a little bit about that?
I don’t know, I guess I used to always be the one playing music at house parties, just mixing tunes from my phone and one day I just decided to go for it and buy a console. And yeah especially with how my room is right now, I really get into it, ha ha. I’ve been listening to a lot of Nigerian disco and pop music. There’s this album called Doing it in Lagos that’s really sick. Otherwise it’s mainly to old techno and house music. Stuff like Yoan used in my train station part… Or guys like Larry Levan, Ron Trent, Tom Trago, Floorplan, Frankie Knuckles or Giorgio Moroder who I think is one of the best. I’m not sure if this is going to come across right in English but I’m quite picky, I feel like my mood gets really affected by the music that’s being played; I can’t just pretend to like something.
Ollie, Catania. Ph: Sam Clark.
Do you ever go to big nights in Milan?
Not really, the people are kind of a bit too crazy for me to be honest.
Yoan (Taillandier)
is the person who told me to ask you about your passion for neon lights and the DJing.
How have you two ended up spending so much time together recently?
The first time I met him was on that
Free
trip with you. I’d never properly filmed VX before that and he’s such a good filmer; I was so happy with how all that came out. And he’s just the friendliest guy and we got along really well straight away, so when I found out that the guy had lost my train station part, I decided to start all over again with Yoan.
Wait, what do you mean ‘lost my train station part’?
Basically I’ve had the idea of filming
a part at the train station
for a long time but it was hard because there are no filmers in Milan. I mean there is one, but he’s busy most of the time. Anyway so I did it with a friend that lives a couple of hours away and films HD. But by the time we almost had enough to make a full part he went to Barcelona without downloading any of the clips and got his bag stolen at MACBA, with all the tricks and the cameras in there…
Fuck so you’ve filmed that part twice?
No the HD part was completely different, I didn’t re-film any of the same tricks. I was so over it; I wasn’t mentally prepared to try the same stuff again.
Nose bash, Catania. Ph: Sam Clark.
I seem to remember you watching a lot of old videos to get hyped before going skating. Is it still the case?
Yeah definitely. I’m always putting something on before I go out…
If we were about to go skating now, what would you watch?
Probably
Henry Sanchez in
Sight Unseen
. That fakie heel manny!
I love that one. The song… All that Marcus (McBride) footage…
Ah man he’s so stylish. That nollie flip he does… I wish I could nollie flip like that.
Something we haven’t talked about yet is Baker.
Man I’m still tripping on it. It’s still insane for me to think that I’m riding for them.
Tailgrab, London. Ph: Joel Peck.
How did it come about?
You know when you get a text from a number you don’t have in your contacts and it pops up on your phone as ‘maybe:’? Well I got a text out of nowhere from ‘Maybe: Andrew Reynolds’ ha ha. I thought I was going to have a heart attack. It took me a while to actually open it… Anyway all it said was: ‘Hi it’s Andrew Reynolds, come to LA, it would be good to get you on Baker.’ My first thought was that it must be a mistake; he must have gotten my number mixed up with someone else’s… I just replied that I was keen; I had to. He’s always been one of my favourite skaters. How can you say no to Andrew Reynolds? You just don’t.
So you went to meet him in LA?
Yeah I was going on a
Nike trip around America
and Scuba (Nike US TM) hooked me up with a ticket so I could be in LA for a few days first.
The day I went over to meet him at Baker Boys
I was sweating so much ha ha. I was terrified. And then when I finally saw him I thought ‘this guy doesn’t even look real! He’s like a statue or something!’ To this day I only met him that one time and we didn’t even talk about me skating for Baker, that’s the crazy thing! Then when we were on that Nike trip Scuba casually asked me what size boards I skated so I told him, not really thinking anything of it. A few days later I snapped a board, so told him I had to go back to the hotel to put a new one on… Only when I got there, there was a box of Baker boards waiting for me with a hand written note from Reynolds!
What did it say on there?
Something along the lines of ‘no pressure, just know that we’d love to have you on the team’, then an explanation of all the different shapes. Stuff like ‘8.2, Lizard likes it… I quite like this shape because…’ Kind of like instructions for each board. When I got home that note went straight on the wall in my room!
Ollie up to backside wallride nosegrab, Catania. Ph: Sam Clark.
The first European ever to skate for Baker… Are you going to be in
Baker 4
?
Yeah Reynolds has asked me to film a full part. Honestly I still can’t believe it… But yeah, that’s my main focus right now.
I remember you saying he encouraged you to stay in Milan and film there rather than going to LA. American companies have come a long way ha ha…
I was actually about to book my ticket to LA when he saw this clip I’d just filmed at the train station on Insta and was like ‘actually please stay in Milan, we’d really love to have some footage of you skating the train station in the video’. At first I was a bit like, ‘Really? Again?’ but then I realised I still had quite a few things I wanted to do there and he said he’d come and visit with the whole team, which would be really cool.
Also (and I’m really not trying to talk shit on America or anything here) I understand why that makes sense for them. European skateboarding has so much flavour right now… Just the fact that you’re always travelling between countries means that your parts are full of all these different kinds of architecture that varies so much from country to country. You don’t have that as much in America. Don’t get me wrong I love going there! I just think Europe is maybe more entertaining.
I think you can say that. It doesn’t take away from all the cool stuff that’s going on over there. Like everything the Bronze dudes are doing… How did you end up
linking up with them
?
They were just at the train station one day so I offered to show them some spots and we instantly clicked. It’s weird becoming friends with such a tight crew so quickly… With them all being so close I didn’t really expect it to happen like that. They were all just really easy and friendly. They were in Milan once, then next thing I know I was going to visit them in NYC!
Slappy nosestall pull-over, Catania. Ph: Sam Clark.
You sound surprised ha ha… You realise why that is right? It’s because you’re the most welcoming person ever. Remember that last time I was in Milan? You were sending me pins to spots all day. You couldn’t even skate yet you still went out of your way to help us… Not very many people do that; of course you’re going to make a good impression.
I don’t know… I just want people visiting to feel at home! I’m not one to keep spots because I’m envious what they might do there or something. I love this city; I want people to enjoy it.
Okay maybe one last question to wrap this up. This whole Olympics thing is a real shit show in England at the moment. What’s going on in Italy? I’m guessing you’ve been approached about it?
They approached me but I’m against the Olympics; I don’t want to have anything to do with that.
So you’d rather see some stinking Red Bull hat dudes misrepresenting your beloved Italy than being involved yourself? What if Italy started a program with you, Bobby, Luca Crestani and a few more Italian legends? Would you still not be down?
No, ha ha. Even if I got offered a million bucks I wouldn’t go. It’s not because of what the Olympics are; it’s about what’s coming up because of the Olympics. Like people being drug tested for Marijuana for example… We’re skateboarders, we know what we’re doing and we know what we need. To have someone that doesn’t skate tell you that you can’t smoke weed because you need to compete in the Olympics is ridiculous. Fuck that, I don’t want anyone telling me what I can and can’t do.
I’m also worried that because of the Olympics, big sports shops like Decathlon are going to start selling a lot more skate stuff, which inevitably will fuck up the real skater-owned shops. I want no part in that.
Plus I’m over travelling far for contests. If I’m going to travel to the other side of the world it’s to stay a while, film and really appreciate a place. Not just jump on a plane to spend two days in an overcrowded skatepark in hope of qualifying for the Olympics. That’s boring for me. I feel like now more than ever skateboarding is going in two different directions. You can become an athlete that goes to all the big contests and will do the Olympics, or you can keep doing it the OG way…
And spend your days grinding those lovely round ledges at the train station, drinking beers and smoking when you feel like it, chatting away about trick ideas with your friends…
Exactly. I have nothing against the Olympics or the people that choose to participate in them; it’s just not what I want skateboarding to be for me.
Ph: Joel Peck.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 15, 2018
Skateboarding, academia & public space:  a conversation with Ocean Howell
Javier Sarmiento, Switch kickflip, Barcelona. Ph. Gerard Riera
When discussing the topic of skateboarding in academia one would be remiss not to mention Ocean Howell. Most skaters will recognise Ocean’s name from old
H-Street
and
Birdhouse videos
, the
2005 iPath promo
or maybe from tales of the infamous
Howard House
in San Francisco. But after gracefully bowing out of professional skateboarding years ago, Ocean immersed himself into academia. Many degrees, journal articles, a book and two kids later, Ocean is now teaching history at the University of Oregon. But somewhere along the way to his newly tenured status as a professor Ocean wrote some pretty important
academic papers about skateboarding
. I say pretty important as Ocean’s work has been cited in dozens of academic journals, quoted in books and newspapers, heard on
radio programmes
, and used as an academic reference for many skaters lobbying town councils for a place to skate.
After visiting London for
Pushing Boarders
, Ocean decided to stay on for a few extra days. Arthur and myself met up with him one evening for a quick skate at Stockwell and then we retired to the Marquis of Lorne for some pints and conversation. The following is what transpired. – Will Harmon
Arthur Derrien: What are your feelings about the whole Pushing Boarders event? Was it what you expected?
Ocean Howell: It was better than I expected to be honest. I mean it’s different. I expected it to be just really narrowly focused on skate academics because it was organised by people like Iain Borden and his graduate students. So I expected it to be a little smaller and I guess, what people are saying makes sense, is that once Long Live Southbank got involved, it got little skate-ier and a little larger and a little more publicity…
I think that was really cool. It was also nice to see academics talking to planners, talking to organisers, talking… And then just a bunch of skaters and they’re all listening to that.
Will Harmon: Yeah there were some great discussions.
I think it’s good for everyone just to be talking to each other and not be siloed off. I care a lot about skateboarding obviously and about advocacy, but I’m not an active organiser myself. If I have to talk to people who are saying complete bullshit: I can’t stand it. I have to go to research. There are a lot of people who are really patient and good at persuading: I think that’s great. I think everyone needs everyone else in order to try to get a good outcome for skateboard culture and to promote it.
In general, the thing that was most interesting to me, and I think is most encouraging, is the idea that skateboarders really are in the position to make cities more egalitarian places. I really believe that. But I’m nervous people are going to start congratulating themselves too much. I think they have to be really careful about it and be aware of the potential pitfalls… Potential ways that what they are doing can get appropriated or, you know, just used as a mechanism to boost property values and to…
AD: …be used for gentrification.
Exactly, which happens, it definitely happens. Look, skateboarders shouldn’t be expected to solve every problem. You know when you get yourself in the position of pitting homeless people against small business owners, against skateboarders and all that… You know that tells you that there are larger structural problems that skateboarding can’t solve on its own… But skateboarders can be aware of the landscape and think about where there are opportunities and where there’s potential. And I think they should say no to some opportunities. Now that the cities are actually listening to us, I think it’s important to be selective and not to just agree to anything. I’ll use an exaggerated example to make the point: what if there was a site that was like a woman’s health clinic, or like an orphanage or a homeless shelter, and they’re like, ‘we’re going to level all this stuff, we’re not providing any replacement services or anything but build a beautiful skatepark,’ I think they should say no to that.
WH: If skaters want to be considered, they have to consider others.
Exactly that’s a perfect way to put it. But I think there’s a lot of potential. Something from a personal perspective: for my generation of skaters, it’s insane to think about collaborating with city councils and governments because the whole idea was ‘fuck you’. But things have changed, so there’s something just strange about seeing the whole thing.
WH: So you said that skateboarding lead you into academia, which is quite unusual I would say.
Yeah that’s not a typical path…
WH: How can skateboarding benefit from academia?
Well actually this was really nice (and surprising): a lot of people came up to me this weekend and told me that when they’re dealing with city councils or contractors who are building parks or even with parents: they point to my work, they point to Iain Borden’s work and it legitimises it. That’s amazing to hear. The book I wrote is about urban planning in the Mission District, and it’s
a very academic book
, I’m very proud of it, it’s a very heady piece of work with ten years of research. But I don’t think it has had as much immediate and obvious impact on the world as the handful of essays I’ve written about skateboarding. Just because people use them and it’s a live issue. It’s a set of debates that are happening right now and involve how the city is going to be designed and where money is going to go. Those are very important issues and academics can at the very least provide a patina of respectability. In the most basic sense ‘hey look, it’s legitimate because the university cares about it’ – that’s the first layer. But then also provide objective research to back things up. To back up why? Because this way when you’re presenting arguments to a city council you can say ‘look here’s actual research that demonstrates this…’ I think that’s very important and this is where I see my real role. I’m very happy to serve this function of being a public intellectual in these kinds of places and kind of just be a cheerleader for it to a certain extent. But I view my most important role as just providing objective research. I’m so glad a lot of people have reacted so positively to the things I’ve written that were critical. The stuff that people have always been most interested in, and this weekend for sure, was you know the observation that skaters are swept out of some places and they are used as a broom.
AD: That was something I was going to ask you to explain…
I mean but that’s a very critical thing. You can imagine a scenario in which skaters wouldn’t want to hear it, but it’s the truth. So my job is to tell the truth whether I like it or I don’t. It doesn’t matter if I like what I find. One of the guys who trained me at Berkeley used to say: ‘If my facts don’t conform to my politics, I don’t change my facts, I change my politics’. Like I say, the act of skateboarding is pure in my mind. But if people went in a different direction with it, I’d be like, ‘I’m not having anything to do with it anymore but I still have my skateboard. Fuck all of you, I’m going to go skateboard because I love skateboarding. This can be your thing and I’m going to do my thing.’ An academic’s role is to tell the truth. And it’s very important that someone like me, or Iain Borden, remain objective about it because then that’s the only way that it will retain its authority. Otherwise, if I slip into the mode of advocacy… I mean I’m happy to put on a different hat and be an advocate in this room…
AD: Seems dangerous…
I know and it’s always a bit uncomfortable for me. And you know, I’m a fucking skate rat, I still am. I obviously want to see a certain set of outcomes. But my role at the end of the day, the most important role I can serve is to provide objective analysis about how skateboarding interacts with city governments, how the city is designed, all that kind of stuff.
AD: You just touched on it briefly, but can you properly explain your analogy of the skaters being swept out of some places and being used as a broom in others.
Part of the
Broken Windows policy
in the US in the eighties was these police sweeps… Will did you ever get caught up in sweeps in Union Square?
WH: Well I escaped, I ran out…
Yeah I did too… I never got caught but I got caught up in them. They would drive into the square. It was really nasty and the idea was, ‘you’re a sign of disorder’ so they’re going to sweep you out. But then in a lot of other places where they started building a lot of skateparks… The one I was thinking about was
Burnside
: that’s a classic one. So they started pouring concrete up to the pillars underneath the bridge and then the city (the Oregon Department of Transportation more precisely) comes and says: ‘what the fuck are you guys doing? We’re knocking this down. This is unauthorised.’ And all the surrounding property owners said, ‘don’t you dare! This was an open-air drug market and a big problem. These guys are scrounging, drinking beers and shouting but they’re fine.’ People’s cars aren’t getting broken into, it’s less threatening on the streets because you know the lower rung of people who are really hard up and so therefore commit actual crimes, they’ve been scared out. So that was the rationale by which they allowed Burnside to remain. Not because they were trying to support youth. I mean that was a supplementary benefit.
WH: You think their PR people tried to spin it like: ‘yeah we’re going to help the kids’?
No, it’s to help property value. And that is a tool in the tool kit of urban planners in the United States now. And they know; if you get one alone in a room they’ll be perfectly frank about it. Why do they site parks under bridges? Because that’s always where you get a rung below you, on the social scale… Right? And I mean there’s a good case to be made for doing that though… It’s very complicated because you know what skate culture is like and especially at a park… It’s a supportive community for kids who might otherwise end up in that situation. In Portland there was other places where they were proposing to put parks and the homeless advocates didn’t want it because they knew that that meant moving out their clients. They knew that was a tactic.
WH: It’s a tricky situation.
There you have it: homeless advocates versus skateboarders… Fuck that. So that was the whole rationale of Love Park… The people who were supportive of allowing skaters in Love Park were saying ‘oh there was just drug dealers and homeless people there before’. Well there were homeless people there before because of fucking
Reagan closing all the mental hospitals
.
AD: Which is a different problem…
Right, and one that they’re not addressing.
WH: Skateboarders are being used as the broom.
‘We’ll just sweep ‘em out and under the rug’ you know? That’s a good metaphor because they’re not doing anything for those people, they’re just trying to fucking get rid of them.
WH: And once the property values go up, we’ll sweep the skateboarders out and make a Starbucks.
The other term I use is the ‘shock troops of gentrification’ because the exact same thing happens to skaters. They’re the next… You know, ‘get rid of the lowest rung, skateboarders are good for that.’ And they’re like the higher rung up… And then when the Frappuccino crowd shows up… Sweep the skaters away. So that’s a perfect example of a thing that skateboarders, I think need to be very aware and conscious of. And I don’t think skaters are here to solve all these problems. But there’s certainly, I’m sure it’s happened already somewhere, a place where it’s just really obvious that you’re being instrumentalised in order to fuck another group up. And I think we need to just be conscious about that.
WH: So speaking about just that, ‘defensive design’, obviously it’s only aimed at a certain category of the public: skateboarders, homeless people, people who do graffiti… So how do you think the Frappuccino’s and free Wi-Fi crowd aka a lot of the white middle class users perceive it? Is it working?
They don’t see it! OK so here’s a story I tell in one of my pieces. You know the bay blocks (in San Francisco)? Where they put all the really nasty skate-stoppers on? I interviewed the architect who designed those exact ones. She called them pig ears. I went through the letters to the editor for a bunch of newspapers. That’s always a good place to look if it’s hard to figure out how people are thinking. It’s always hard to know what the public is actually thinking unless you go out and do surveys. You have to get like human subjects and all that… But you can get a sense of stuff from letters to the editor. So I went through a bunch of those and there was a lot in there, a lot of people were talking about it and I don’t think I saw a single thing that was supportive of it. I think everyone was pissed. There was one that I remember really well… ‘I’m a person who should hate skateboarders; I’m a middle-aged lady with a bad leg, but this is so mean-spirited. It’s uglier than the damage that the skateboarders make.’
Oscar Candon, noseslide, Marseille. Ph. Felix Schaper
WH: I don’t know if you’ve been to San Francisco Arthur, but it’s literally like a mile long and all skate-stopped.
AD: Must have cost so much fucking money.
Just in steel alone for those things… But so the answer is, in so far if it’s visible, no. And that’s actually why I really wanted to point it out to people that this is happening, so people understand. I mean I’ve never had the experience of someone saying ‘oh yeah they should do that.’ I think people are sometimes… They don’t know what to think about it. But no one is like ‘oh yeah those fuckers.’ I mean I’m sure those people wouldn’t talk to me to begin with; I’m sure there are people that think that…
WH: But what makes the bay blocks unique is that there are not so many businesses around there. I understand what
Gustav (Eden)
was saying about making the noise, danger to pedestrians and the damage…
OK fair enough. But at the bay blocks it is just people jogging, riding their bikes, walking… There are no businesses where the noise would make any type of difference.
I know but it’s just those stunning views of the Bay Bridge and Angel Island…
WH: Why can’t skateboarders enjoy that too?
That’s exactly what I’m saying… They don’t want that on a postcard of San Francisco. It’s part of the tourist’s vision.
AD: The thing is they exist. Who picks this tourist vision? I guess it’s not fair.
I know, I know.
WH: Think about how many different generations of skateboarders have travelled to San Francisco for skateboarding.
I know but that’s not the kind of tourism they want either – especially in a place like that. I mean some places like Barcelona are interesting though because when they had, I’m sure they don’t have a phone book anymore, but the last time I was there in 2005 I think, they had a phone book still. And they had a picture of a skateboarder at MACBA. And they were like, ‘this is a vibrant place.’ San Francisco doesn’t market itself like that, it goes for ‘this is beautiful and exclusive.’
There was one more thing I wanted to say about that. The thing about whether it works for people. We saw those things on the way over here when we were by the station in Brixton, Stockwell station right? The
new spot with the anti-skate stuff
… People don’t see that; they don’t know what that is. And insofar as the design has got more sophisticated, because you could just throw those clips up, skate-stoppers that are on everything… But people don’t like them. Average people don’t like them. They look like shit and they look mean-spirited.
WH: Well they are not comfortable to sit on either.
They’re not comfortable to sit on and also you can just tell that they’re there… It’s like spikes. No one likes seeing spikes even if it’s for pigeons. When people see spikes in a place and they know it’s to keep homeless people off… People are uncomfortable with that. They don’t want to be confronted with that fact, the fact that the city is built for a certain public. When we’re talking about public you’re never talking about everyone. The city is designed in such a way as to selectively filter its users. Planners don’t talk about the public; they talk about users. And they have to. That doesn’t necessarily mean they’re bad or stupid. You have to design things for certain things and not for other things. But you know when people are confronted with the fact that you’re not designing for people who are in a worst possible position, also just like young people who are skateboarding, they don’t want to be faced with that. They don’t want to have to think about that. So in so far as the design, it has become more sophisticated in becoming invisible as defensive, then it is working. And I think it’s important for us to continually point it out. ‘Do you know why they designed it like this?’
WH: Yes, right!
There was actually… I was really psyched, I don’t know if you guys would have seen this but the Guardian quoted me a lot. There was a guy Alex Andreou, he was an actor who went through some hard times and ended up sleeping rough for a while in London, and he read my stuff and wrote a couple really nice essays about his experience and
cited me in it a bunch
. So what he was doing was pointing it out and he used me to point it out. So I think all of us need to be continually pointing that out to people like, ‘do you know why they’re doing that?’
WH: You’re right so many people don’t even realise…
They don’t know. And it’s designed so as to be invisible. I also think that in some places it probably makes sense to have them. You know like out the front of a cancer ward and there’s some sick ledges that you might know… Some 14-year-old that’s going to get too excited and run into someone… So you know there’s probably some places where… And especially when we’re getting to the point that they are actually designing some places for us… We do have to make some concessions I think. Not ‘like we need to hold on to every little thing because we know it’s going to go away’… Like maybe it won’t.
Ben Raemers, Wallie frontside tweak, Barcelona. Ph. Gerard Riera
AD: So there have been cases when architects have been super-supportive of skateboarding and they’ve designed benches with metal edges. But then the city or the building owners put skate stoppers over the already metal-edged ledges. So the architect has one vision, and then I guess it’s just ruining the architect’s work…
That happened at the
new federal building in San Francisco
. I went to a talk with the architect Tom Mann: he was pissed. He was really pissed. He was like ‘no this is for the public! No, I wanted people to skate it’.
AD: Is there anything architects can do to prevent that from happening to their work?
Well you know it’s like anything else, you put it out in the world and then you don’t get to control it anymore. I mean that is a tough one. I don’t know, I’m not a designer. I’m a historian who is around that culture a little bit. I mean the person you want to ask that question to, and I think you should, was the other guy who was on that panel: David Knight. Someone asked him a question, maybe it wasn’t directly that, but it lead into this discussion pretty quickly. He was saying that when you do the renders, there’s some kind of notes that you can put in.
AD: That’s the thing I mean. Is there a way for them to…
When you think about it people imagine that architects are out there creating the spaces that we all live in. And there’s a sense in which that’s true, but there’s also the sense in which architects are just contractors. You know what I mean?
WH: You make a building then someone else is going to manage it.
You know like I get in a guy to do the mud on my wall. Mud my walls and then I can do what the fuck I want with it after he’s finished and left. I mean so that’s a hard one because you know they’re just contractors and they are scrapping with each other, they are competing with each other to get commissions…
AD: So it’s always going to be on a policy level then?
Well, no it is on an implementation level. I think it often bypasses policy. Because there’s like a policy level where people decide that these are the kinds of things that we should be doing. But then it comes down to the administrators who are actually like, like the city councillors aren’t thinking about looking at ledges. You know what I mean? They’re on to the next thing. ‘I got the money for this… I got the money organise for this… This is gonna work, OK… I’m on to the next thing and then you guys work this all out…’ And then it’s the administrators, like the mid-level administrators, who are making these decisions. You know so I think it’s like mid-level city planners… You really need to talk to those people.
AD: So apart from having the Gustavs (Editor’s note: Gustav Eden is Skateboarding Coordinator for the city of Malmö, employed by the Streets and Parks Department) and people like that, you just can’t avoid that from happening?
No, well I think there are things you can do. I think especially the more notoriety you have as an architect… You do have some weight to throw around…
AD: OK so if you’re like a massive deal you can be like ‘this was for this, look what’s happening…’
Right exactly so, it’s partly about convincing… Talking to architects and trying to convince them to exert whatever influence they do have. Their influence isn’t determinative, but it’s still influence. The mid-level planners, they need to be educated too.
AD: During the
Pushing Boarders talk about public space
David Knight said: ‘The single biggest enemy of good public space, is the will to iron out conflict.’ And how the most successful spaces are the ones that are in conflict (he used Trafalgar Square as an example). Can you explain what he meant by that? Is it a statement you agree with?
Yeah I was going to say I worry a little bit about that… I think I do agree with him as long as he meant it in a certain way… I think he did… It’s not conflict in so far as, people throwing bottles at each other… ‘We’re going to design this space for Antifa and neo-Nazis’…
AD: It’s everyone wanting the space basically.
Yeah exactly and not open conflict in the sense of like literally fighting or a 14 year old running over someone in front of a cancer ward. I doubt that’s what he meant. But OK so think about space like MACBA, have you ever spent time at MACBA?
AD: I’ve spent a lot of time at MACBA.
Yeah so do you notice how certain groups of people come at certain times of the day and just kind of claim space? It can get a little testy at times but when I was there I only ever saw a couple of things go down. There’s real value to groups of people claiming a space. There’s a whole immigrant community that lives right there… And they come in and they start kicking a ball around, and then the skaters are there…
AD: That’s what makes a place vibrant, this mix of groups. Then just like a family coming out of the museum like, ‘oops sorry’ to the skater. Then the kids are watching the skaters… And then the guy that’s selling you a beer starts having a go on the skateboard…
And then there’s like rich tourists there who are used to having everything designed exactly for their comfort. They have to come through into this major cultural institution… You know a world famous museum, a glowing Richard Meier building, and then they have to see skaters and North African immigrants…
WH: People kicking a football full speed towards you…
Totally…
AD: They’re forced to sit down stop and have a look and take it in…
And then usually everyone’s like, ‘heya!’
WH: Most people enjoy it.
Yeah exactly, and I assume that’s what he meant by that in which case I support it 100%.
AD: Yeah. As opposed to to a space only being for one type of person.
Yeah exactly, exactly… So there’s like this complex negotiation of space. Who gets to sit where and all that kind of little micro stuff that goes on. That’s what the public is. That’s how everyone understands… And that’s what a good public space is like. And that’s why I love European cities, because there’s so much of that. There’s so little of it in US cities.
So yeah and so far as public spaces hosting conflict, in that sense, I’m all for it.
WH: It teaches people from different backgrounds how to interact with each other.
So, as you haven’t written much about skateboarding recently, but you said you’d like to again soon: after what you heard this weekend, how would you steer your future research and writing? Are there some things you heard this weekend that made you think, ‘wow I’d really like to look into that’?
I guess all the organising that’s going on… That might be worth looking at. I am interested in that: all the stuff that’s happening here (London), and in Copenhagen, and Malmö. So I mean maybe that… I don’t know I’ve got this other project on my plate right now that I’m trying to wrap up. So it all depends… I mean the one thing that’s always really, really interested me and I wanted to study is the thing I mentioned in the first panel which is, the fact that skateboarding kind of chases waves of economic development, chases global capital basically. Because global capital produces certain sorts of actual physical spaces… So China, I don’t know where’s the next… There’s some stuff in Tel Aviv… People are starting to skate Dubai.
Heitor Da Silva, 50-50 grind, Philadelphia. Ph. Zander Taketomo.
WH: Taiwan is getting big now.
Right and then it will be Uzbekistan… Well it won’t be as Uzbekistan because it’s fucked, but whoever is next for a big wave of modernisation, a big influx of global capital. Unless it’s like Singapore or something, where they have a crazy policing scheme. And eventually what will happen I think is that… Because you know how in certain places, anti-skate design they’re savvy to it now. They know how to do it. Eventually, it doesn’t seem like it’s happened yet, but that’s eventually going to get integrated into international architectural knowledge, design knowledge. I don’t know when it’s going to be.
AD: Not if we beat them in that race to modernisation… If skating manages to get ahead…
As the way you make a good city.
AD: That’s more modern than having a cap/knob.
The way that you make a modern and good city is by welcoming it.
AD: It’s unlikely, but imagine…
OK when Alexis (Sablone) was talking about her experience at Love Park, getting kicked out of the spot by undercover cops with longboards… Imagine how far that is from what most of us experience in Europe. As Gustav was joking, kids being force-fed marble in Malmö…
How does it get to the point where there’s such a huge gap between America and Europe in the way skateboarding is perceived? It started in America, America’s made so much money from it…
I have a lot of shit to say about that actually. Generally, it’s a culture of conservatism that we’ve been in the throes of for a very long time now. It’s a broad based shift, starting in 1970s. A reaction against what happened in the 1960s – that’s why. The riots… The riots that happened in the late 60s, the cities fucking burned. They really did.
WH: So the powers that be completely changed how they thought about public space. I never thought about it like that…
That’s exactly why. Not exactly, I mean there’s a bunch of shit that happened after that. But that’s the seed of it right? There was a youth culture, and then poor people of colour, who rose up against the Vietnam War and for free speech issues or civil rights… The Civil Rights Movement… All of that shit, so when people see young people, even if they’re white, and brown people and black people out damaging things, like taking up space, there’s a fucking instinct in there to get out a baton. You could talk about the mess in Berkeley when (Ronald) Reagan was the governor of California… Then all of the civil rights stuff… Which, we too often only associate with the South. I mean that shit… The Black Panthers in Oakland… Stuff was going on everywhere, and so we are still living through this backlash against the 1960s. I think that’s really the roots of it.
OK here’s another important thing… Did you read the thing I wrote about skateboard parks? I wrote a thing about skateboard parks; it was actually the first thing I published in a peer review journal. It was about progressive era playgrounds. I published it in the Journal of Urban History…
WH: OK I don’t think I’ve seen that, but I’d love to…
It was about progressive era playgrounds. Why did we first get playgrounds? It’s a really interesting story. What I say there is, it’s all about property value, it wasn’t about the ideology that people had. And what I wrote about skateboard parks is the same, it’s sort of following that up for the present era, ‘
Public Skateboard Parks are the Neo Liberal Playground
’ that was the title of my piece. Which again was a critical thing I think might have pissed skaters off, but people really responded positively to it. I was like great yeah… But it’s all about property values. That’s another reason in the American context. And here (in the UK), for one thing, it’s harder to own anywhere… It’s much more of a socialised economy. It’s all about private property there. So that has an absolutely material literal expression where, ‘you’re on my piece of property’ like, ‘you cross that line you’re now on my piece of property’, but it also has a mind-set. When people are in public spaces or people are walking through public space… They conceive it as a kind of as a private property. Do you understand what I mean? So it’s like, ‘this is for this… Look there’s a bench here and it’s clearly meant for people who have shopped in that store to come here and eat this kind of fucking sandwich’… They have a certain kind of possessive sense of everything. Even when things are actually public, their conception of publicness is a very privatised version of it I think. So yeah all of that big fucking frothy mix of stuff contributes to the fact that people look at skateboarding that way in the US as opposed to here. And you’re right, that’s gross and it’s maddening. Like that’s where it fucking came from.
WH: It’s interesting, I never thought about it like that.
OK so Malmö is a very forward thinking city and that’s helped skateboarding thrive there, at the same time as Daphne (Greca) said in the talk yesterday… Athens is quite a chaotic city with lots of problems plus a very anarchic attitude, and that has also benefited the skateboard scene. But I feel like most cities are somewhere in between that. They aren’t as forward thinking as Malmö, but not complete chaos like Athens..
.
In your opinion, what are some of the best things an average skater can do to convince his or her city council that skateboarding benefits public spaces and city life?
Well, I mean that’s really a question for Gustav… Also it depends on the context. Talking to Eugene, Oregon is not the same as talking to Malmö, not the same as talking to Athens, not the same as talking to London. Actually I really appreciate all the stuff Stu (Maclure) was saying… Learn your local council, learn their language, learn who the people are, learn their concerns… I’m just saying because they are all incredibly different.
So the main thing I would have to say is understand where you are, understand what the local politics are, understand who’s involved. And learn about it. Again I’m so impressed with European cities. Like dirt bag skaters, who are just fucking pounding beers and smoking blunts show up and go, ‘OK there’s an issue that I think is important’, and then they fucking get it together go to the city council.
AD: That was definitely the case for the
Long Live Southbank
campaign.
WH: It’s incredible.
You’re like ‘these fucking dudes?’
AD: Fucking heroes man, it was unbelievable.
WH: You’re like ‘ok there’s a 10% chance that they can make a change.’ And they did it. They saved Southbank. To me that is incredible. It brought people together.
I mean that’s it… Understand the local scene and organise. And learn to speak that other language. And I appreciated some of the stuff that Gustav was saying, you know, ‘when you’re young and you’re super into your culture, it’s really easy to dismiss everything else and to feel like you’re selling out when you’re doing this stuff’. But you’re not. ‘Oh, you’re doing property damage… No, I’m activating this space’. And it’s not learning how to bullshit: it’s telling the truth. People speak different languages, and there’s nothing wrong with being able to speak in different registers, you know what I mean? You don’t curse in front of your mum…
WH: It’s the way you talk to people that confront you as well. That’s another thing you can do. ’I’m not trying to damage this; I’m trying to use this dead space.’
Right, so learn to speak in the appropriate registers. You know, you speak a different way at work than you do when you’re with your friends drinking beers… or with your wife, or with your kids… My god I have kids now, boy do I have to speak in a different way than I’m inclined to… And my students… And the older you get and the more responsibilities and worlds you move into, the more you learn to speak different languages and the more you realise that’s fine. Young people tend to have an issue with that. They think that they’re not being true to themselves.
WH: Selling out or something.
Selling out yeah, just by learning what a city council is. You know what I mean? Learning the basic stuff. That’s not true. You live in this world and you have obligations to it.
AD: And you’re doing yourself a favour.
You’re doing yourself a favour… Exactly. Learn to speak in different registers. And you’re not being untrue to yourself; you’re just broadening your world. Trying to convince skaters of that I think is important.
Dakota Servold, backside tailslide, Barcelona. Ph. Gerard Riera.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 17, 2016
Dennis Busenitz Interview
Ph. Conny Mirbach
Dennis Busenitz started skating in Germany and moved to the States when he was 15. So it made perfect sense to celebrate ten years of Dennis on adidas in the place where Dennis spent his first ten years of skating: Munich. The kind folks at adidas skateboarding flew us over to Munich last weekend to hang out with Mr. Busenitz, eat pretzels, schnitzel, drink beer, celebrate and basically have a good time. Luckily I got to talk to Dennis before things got too messy…
Interview by Will Harmon
So 10 years on adidas, congrats! Had you ever skated adidas before you got on the team?
Dennis Busenitz: Yeah I’m sure at some point. I had adidas as a kid and stuff. I skated in them for sure and I probably got in trouble for it because they’re like nice shoes. (Laughs)
And when you got on the team in 2006, do you remember what was your first pair you skated in?
I don’t know what they were called, but they were like high-top shoes. They were the ones that Gonz drew all over. They were like light blue and white; I think with a little rubber toe. (Editor’s note: We think they were these
here
) It was a skate shoe and I remember I went up to Portland to visit those guys and they gave me a pair of those and I skated them at Burnside and they were nice. But then after that I liked the
Dakota shoe
; I skated that one a whole bunch. It’s like a boxing shoe or something.
So did you have any of these first shoes you skated in mind when you designed your first Busenitz pro shoe?
When they gave me a shoe it was just that I wanted to make the
Copa Mundial soccer shoe
and I had never skated anything like that until they made it ‘cause Copa Mundial has cleats on it and you can’t skate in it.
Ah I see. So you grew up here in Munich. You started skating here as a kid?
Yeah I started skating here. A neighbourhood kid had a board and we had like boards from our older brothers, like the banana boards and things like that, and this neighbourhood kid could ollie up a curb – so that tripped us out. And then I just kinda had to figure out how to do that and I just kept going from there. It’s a pretty standard story.
Frontside kickflip in Munich’s Olympia Park. Ph. Conny Mirbach
And so you moved to Kansas from here?
Yeah a long time after that. I was like five or six when I learned to ollie up a curb.
That’s young!
Yeah but my brothers were older like ten (years old). They knew more of like what was going on. So it was a good ten years before I moved to Kansas. I moved to Kansas at 15 so I was already really into skating.
So do you remember the first time you came back here (to Munich) from when you moved away?
Yeah I came here in 2001 or 2002 on an Emerica trip. It was just like a Euro trip and then my sister got married here so I came back for that.
So you still had family that lived here?
Yeah my sister lived here, but she met a Greek dude while we lived here and then she married him and then stayed here when we all moved to Kansas. Then after they were married they moved to Greece, that’s where they are at now.
Especially now that Trump is going to be President, have you ever thought of moving back? Did this thought cross your mind last week?
Yeah it definitely crossed my mind last week, but it probably did for everybody. (Laughs) But even before that we talked about it and stuff, but it’s just not that casual with two kids to do it. My wife doesn’t speak German so that makes it all very difficult and it’s cold here too in the wintertime and I don’t think we’d fair that well. Every time we come to visit in the summertime it always seems really cool and it seems like a great idea, but when I really think about it and put on my ‘adult hat’ and think about it responsibly it’s like ‘nah, it’s not really a good idea’. But maybe last week that changed, maybe now it is a good idea.
Yeah who knows? Scary times ahead.
When homie’s got nuclear bombs you are not really safe anywhere. ‘Sorry world! I voted for her!’ It’s fucking crazy.
Munich mid line Tre flip by Dennis while Torsten Frank films. Ph. Conny Mirbach
Ok let’s change the depressing subject… Do you think skateboarding in Europe is different than how it is in the States?
Probably not so much anymore. It seems like it’s a global skate community. You do a kickflip now and put it on Instagram and the whole world knows it and so everybody’s on the same page now more or less. I don’t know it doesn’t seem that different anymore… It’s definitely not what it used to be.
Yeah it was different before social media…
It seems like (people in) Europe used to always look through the mags to see what to do and things and now it seems like they have their own original shit. They are just skating in Europe and…
Not trying to imitate as much…
Yeah. Maybe that’s just my take on it. They (Europeans) have kind of learned what wealth of spots they have and have started to use them to their advantage.
So what’s a typical day for you back home?
I live in Sebastopol now, so I guess just wake up, make coffee, take the kids to school, come back home and then try to skate. Then pick up the kids and hang out – nothing crazy really.
So you don’t have to drive into the city (San Francisco) every day?
No, it would be fucking crazy to drive that much every day. I have like my own shit to skate, so I mess around with that.
Oh yeah you have stuff you built at your house!
Yeah. I usually just try to chill. I’m not at home that much really so I try to make it as boring as possible. I play in the garden, build stupid shit, um… Normal shit I don’t know… Look at my phone too much like everybody else in the world! (Laughs)
Backside kickflip to sw. manny in Munich. Ph. Conny Mirbach
So although you live now just outside of the city, how have you seen SF change over the past 16 years you’ve lived in the area?
It’s gotten a lot blander. I remember it having a lot more mix of people. It’s really gotten a lot more cleaned up and the whole city looks like the Marina now. For people that don’t know the Marina is more like San Diego just more southern Californian. Fuck it’s so hard to say shit without insulting somebody or offending somebody!
Ah don’t worry about it!
Ok it’s kind of like a big outdoor mall where everything’s all shiny and there’s no more griminess. You know like how it is up in Portland; I guess Portland is losing that kind of stuff too.
But there’s still the Tenderloin (notoriously grimy SF neighbourhood) in SF!
Yeah the Tenderloin’s a little harder to clean up, but they’re working really hard on that too.
But it’s still fun to skate there no?
Yeah, they can’t get rid of the hills! But a lot of spots are disappearing. It just seems like it’s getting kinda not as exciting as it used to be, but that could also be because I’ve been there for so long. Maybe it’s just a part of getting older and the world is changing… (in old man’s voice:) ‘I remember when blah blah blah’ and whatever… It’s hard to tell what’s going on.
So a skate tourist is coming to SF to visit, where would you recommend they get a bite to eat?
Food? Well burritos, you have to get a burrito when you’re there in the Mission.
Where’s your spot?
We go to Papalote, but that’s not really an authentic Mexican spot… Pancho Villa is good on 16th. That’s what I’d recommend or Cancun, but Cancun is rather gnarly actually. Go to Pancho Villa.
Where is your coffee spot?
Oh just the one by my house. I don’t really like, uh yeah… I’ve lowered my coffee standards a whole bunch. (Laughs) I don’t even get espresso drinks anymore; I always just get plain ‘coffee’.
Away Days
looks like it was tons of travelling… What have you been up to since it has finished?
Still just travelling, nothing’s really changed. They had like the whole premiere tour and everything and then after that they just did a bunch of other stuff. Yeah it hasn’t really slowed down that much.
So how was it hanging with Snoop Dogg? What was it like?
He’s rad. He’s like perfectly comfortable with whatever… He just met us at a spot and we’re skating and stuff and he just pops out. He’s just really chill and was having a good time. He’s definitely intimidating… I couldn’t really talk. I can never talk. I wanted to ask him things and just talk, but I couldn’t get myself to. I just tripped out that it was Snoop Dogg and Nakel (Smith) and Jake (Donnelly) were there and they took over the talking. So I just kinda like sat back.
So what’s your take on skateboarding going to be in the Olympics?
I can tell you one thing I’m not going to get all upset about it like a lot of people. I don’t think it’s worth wasting your energy on. I think it’s cool, I don’t know… I think it’s cool it’s getting that kind of recognition. The Olympics is the most recognition any kind of sport can get… And whatever, I guess you could get into if it’s a sport or not at all too. But I guess I would just say to some it’s a sport so then it’s cool for those people. And you can talk shit on them all you want, but I think they are doing incredible stuff. They are bringing stuff to skating, and it’s not for everybody, but you have to kind of give it credit: it’s gnarly.
It’s interesting to see how it will all play out.
I guess there’s going to be a lot more Nyjahs, that’s one take on it. I think there’s going to be a lot of parents who are now going to be: ‘Ok I’m going to yell at my kid about skateboarding and make him skateboard,’ because it’s like a ‘recognised profession’ now, a legitimate pursuit.
I think for your average skater it will not affect them very much…
Yeah I’d like to think so. People still go out and play H.O.R.S.E. on a basketball court and I’d like to think that people are just going to go out and skate even if it is an Olympic sport and just do it casually.
Let’s hope so. Ok so last one, do you have a favourite place you’ve ever skated or favourite session you’ve ever had?
Oh that’s a hard one. In general I’m always really stoked that I got to go on those Anti Hero/Real trips. We did one to Arizona and one to the Northwest, to Oregon and everything. That’s when (John) Cardiel was skating and everything and (Tony) Trujillo and whatnot… I look back at those (trips) very fondly, just ‘cause it was rad to see Cardiel going for it and especially with what happened and everything, I think that’s an extra fortunate thing to have been there. You’re gonna make me cry man! (Laughs) Those were rad sessions for sure.
I’m sure they were. Cheers Dennis.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 24, 2022
Dream Ticket – Girl Skateboards in England & Germany
Sam Ashley and I were at CPH Open this past summer and after the event at the prison, we found ourselves in close proximity of the Girl team. They were in the midst of a European tour and CPH was the halfway point. Sam is old friends with Sam Smyth, they were having a chat, so I turned to my right and talked to the well-dressed Canadian chap who was with them. ‘Hi I’m Daniel,’ he said. ‘Policelli?’ I asked… I was aware of his name, as I’d been a fan of his remixes for years. I knew he worked for Crailtap filming and editing, but how he got the job was what enthralled me. Instead of recanting his story myself I’ll let him explain…
Daniel Policelli, 2022. Photo: Fabian Reichenbach.
Interview by Will Harmon
So you grew up skating in Toronto, is that right?
Daniel Policelli: I actually grew up in Vaughan, which is just north of Toronto. But once I started getting older, I definitely started heading into the city more and skating the streets.
What was it that made you get so into Girl and Chocolate?
It was around the time when Pretty Sweet came out. And they were celebrating their 20th anniversary. They were obviously posting a lot about their history and stuff, so I kind of went back and started watching all the old videos that, you know, I was still a baby when they came out. But I think yeah, just that kind of era is when I really started getting into it. Because that’s also when I started filming skating and just paying more attention to the industry.
Rick McCrank, backside 50-50 to 50-50, Stuttgart. Ph.Fabian Reichenbach
I first heard of you, or saw your name, when I saw the
Lakai Return of the Flare
and
Chocolate Chip
remixes, which were sick by the way, but interestingly they weren’t on Crailtap’s YouTube channel, but your own. Were you in contact with the Crail camp to make these?
No, honestly that was just kind of out of boredom, like winter boredom. Just kind of long, cold Canadian winters and nothing to really film and you could barely skate, so I was kind of just screwing around. Then I remember that there was a teaser for
The Flare
, and I was thinking to myself, ‘oh damn, I really hope Rick (Howard) has footage in it.’ I was kind of expecting that he was just going to have a few clips sprinkled in. So I thought maybe it’d be sick to find a bunch of Rick Howard web clips and put them all together and then once the video comes out, take clips from the video and kind of make like
a Rick Howard part
. That was my idea. So I started looking for clips online, and I realised that other dudes on the team have lots of web footage, like (Mike) Carroll and Jesus (Fernandez). So I was like, ‘okay, I’ll just make a few of these then.’ And I made the
Jesus one
that was the first one I posted. And I kind of just made it one night like super bored and I posted it and shared it on Slap. Then the next morning I swear it already had thousands of views. I remember even you guys shared it on your Instagram. Yeah, I think we did… That kind of surprised me. I remember Jesus liking the posts that I made about it. Just that… Already I was kind of blown away, because I wasn’t expecting that response. So then I thought okay, I’ll make a
Carroll one
and I just kind of started doing them every week. And yeah, over time, like dudes on the team or like, people behind the scenes started following me on Instagram…
Rick McCrank frontside stalefishes over Simon Bannerot’s layback grind, Dean Lane, Bristol. Ph. James Griffiths
Wait so you weren’t in contact with these guys to get this footage? You just literally found it on the web? Because they all look really professionally done…
Yeah, so for each skater I would just search their name and try and find everything they’ve done. Well like not to go too off the rails, but there was this dude
Tennyson Corporation
and he was making these same kind of remixes. He’d find every kind of web clip possible and tour videos and things like that. And he made his own full-length video called ‘Dog’. So I just kind of wanted to do the same thing but with stuff from like the end of
Pretty Sweet
to
The Flare
, that kind of little era.
Okay, so basically you did all these for free? Like Crailtap wasn’t paying you.
Yeah, I mean, I definitely didn’t do it to get like clout or whatever you would call it. I just did it because I was bored and I wanted a home for all these random web clips that were scattered across the Internet. So if you want to watch a Carroll part, you don’t have to watch like 40 web clips, you can just watch this part.
Simon Bannerot, ollie to frontside wallride, Munich. Ph.Fabian Reichenbach
That’s great. I mean you’re kind of giving the people what they want, you know? So like these clips, did they already have other audio on it? Or did you find raw stuff? How did you do it?
Yeah, like most of them are from Crail edits, so there were songs. Sometimes you would get lucky and find a raw clip posted to Instagram that you could swap the audio, but basically I was just trying to find the raw skate clips and I would try and dub it. If you heard it without the song I added, like, it probably wouldn’t sound the best, but because of the song, it kind of made it a little easier to hear the skate noises so it sounds right. But it was kind of an annoying thing to do for sure…
Like you said earlier, some of the team guys started following you, and I mean the Crailtap guys must have just been psyched when you were doing this. You were literally giving them free publicity for
The Flare
video that was going to come out. Did they ever contact you or DM you about any of this stuff?
Yeah, I mean, I was posting them every week on a Saturday for like a few months. I suppose they were from February to June in 2017 and yeah, over that time I do remember dudes commenting like, ‘Oh, sick’ or like, ‘This is dope.’ Or even people like (Daniel) Wheatley or Steves (Steven Smith), the TM from Lakai, he was always just like, ‘Yo, like, keep these going. These are sick; we’re all watching them.’ And like that was crazy to me, because again, I wasn’t making these to try and get noticed, I just thought it’d be cool to have it somewhere archived. But yeah, a month before
The Flare
premiere, Federico (Vitetta) hit me up on Instagram, and he just kind of said like, ‘Hey dude, you’re the best. We love watching these. We’d love to see you at the premiere.’ And he says, ‘I have two tickets for you if you want to get here.’ And he didn’t like buy my plane ticket or anything, but I was like, ‘dude, I can’t pass this up.’
Niels Bennett, kickflip frontside 50-50, Munich. Ph.Fabian Reichenbach
Yeah you could meet everyone!
So I went out and spent a couple days in LA and went to the premiere. That was the biggest trip because I got to meet all these dudes and then got to put like a face to the name. It was cool… I got to meet a lot of dudes out there and I got to even sit at The Nine Club where they did a little on set episode. I got to meet Chris (Roberts) and Roger (Bagley) and like kept the connection going.
That was a great night for me to get a couple of phone numbers and stuff and I remember talking to Federico a lot… I was definitely not expecting that at all.
You must have been fanning out pretty hard…
I tried to keep it cool, because I don’t know… I just didn’t want to blow it. So yeah, I don’t think it was too bad, hopefully…
And then so how did this evolve into you working for Girl/Chocolate/Crailtap?
Well, I remember being at the premiere for
The Flare
, and the video ended and I remember everyone was kind of leaving. I was just like sitting there and Carroll was like one of the last ones in the theatre and I was walking up and he was just like, kind of thanking me for the remixes, which was really cool. And I remember him saying, ‘you know, we were watching these every week, like, before we went out filming. You kind of played a part in this video’, and that like, really hyped me up. And I remember Steves too, he was saying, ‘hey, you know maybe you could help us out with the next one?’ And I was like, damn, that’s really sick. Like, these guys are stoked on it. I’m gonna try and keep this thing going. I don’t know how I’m going to do that… But yeah. I was in school at the time. I was going to university for Media Studies and so I was doing that and then on winter or summer breaks, I would try to go to LA for a couple of weeks. Just pretty much like to try and show face and try and be there. I didn’t want to be a try-hard, like, trying to get on every session or anything. But it was just anytime I could say what’s up or like, come out for a session, I would try and do that.
Tyler ‘Manchild’ Pacheco, crack-nollie heelflip, Bristol. Ph. James Griffiths
Yeah I see… It’s hard because you don’t want to seem too keen, even if you actually are.
Yeah, so I think the first trip that I actually went on was the
T.O.N.Y. tour
(Toronto to New York), which was later, in 2019. So this is already like a couple years after, but they came to Toronto, which is obviously where I live, and they asked if I could help show them around and film. And so I helped out with that Toronto leg of the tour and I don’t think I was originally supposed to go to New York with them, I think someone else was lined up to film them in New York, but they ended up not being able to. So Sam (Smyth) was like, ‘hey, like, do you want to just keep coming along with us on the New York side of the trip?’ And obviously I was down for that. And yeah, I don’t know, I kind of just, again, kept it going. It was like a slow build, but yeah, I just kept showing that I was down and I guess I didn’t blow it too hard on the tours or anything so I just kept going on the trips that I could until COVID happened. That kind of put a pause on everything but I was still able to stay in contact and help them out however I could. During the quarantine COVID times it would be like social media stuff, or whatever little edit they needed, or these recap edits at the end of the year, stuff like that.
Simon Bannerot, kickflip the channel, London. Ph. James Griffiths
And they didn’t pressure you to move to Southern California or anything like that?
They were always asking like, ‘hey, what’s up? What’s your plan? Like, you want to come here?’ especially during the filming of
Bunny Hop
. I mean I feel like I’ve spent a lot of time in LA over the past few years and I just feel like Toronto is more of my home. I love it here and it’s where I want to be right now. And I couldn’t really see myself living in LA, but they’re totally fine with that, which is really cool.
Well it’s a pretty exceptional path you’ve taken, from being a big fan of the brand, to eventually working for them. That rarely, and I mean very rarely, actually happens, so that’s pretty incredible.
Oh, yeah, I mean, it was like the stuff I dreamed about in high school or even in university. Like, ‘oh, it’d be sick to like be on a trip with these guys or like to film this kind of thing or that…’ and then I ended up being able to do it all, which is insane. And I’m still doing it too. It’s like, I never would have imagined…
Rowan Davis, frontside nosegrind, Stuttgart. Ph.Fabian Reichenbach
So also on your
YouTube channel
, there’s a lot of other hard to find Girl, Chocolate and Lakai clips. Is this like you said, just seeing these things and wishing they were more available or easier to find? Did you put these up, again, before you were working for these guys?
Yeah, pretty much. That was all stuff before I was involved. It was just kind of stuff that may have even been on YouTube, but they would be in pretty bad quality. And I don’t know, I’m always just kind of like anal about preserving skate quality, like, just making sure it’s in its original quality. A dedicated archivist… I have pretty much all of those Crailtap DVDs, so any ones that were in bad quality or like not even available to find on YouTube, I would just try and put it up just to make sure that they’re up there.
Simon Bannerot, frontside shove-it, London. Ph. James Griffiths
And besides your ‘
DanielPolicelli
‘ account you have a separate YouTube account ‘
PotatoPlop
‘ for all your filming stuff right?
Yeah, I want to keep it separate. Just to have a channel with all that remix kind of stuff and then a channel for all my actual film stuff. That’s kind of been going on for like 10 years now. It’s just kind of all the stuff I film with my friends here in Toronto. But yeah, we’re working on a video. We’re kind of in the crunch time era of it. I guess it’s been the past couple of years, but it’s kind of been like on and off, because I’ve been going on a bunch of trips. But we’re trying to put it out in January, so we’re just about there.
Nice. Okay let’s talk about this past trip to Europe with the squad. Actually it wasn’t your first time in Europe with the crew was it? Didn’t you go with Erik Herrera and Carl Aikens to see Jesus in Denmark?
Yeah, so I did go for the first time last year, in 2021, when we were filming for
Bunny Hop
. That was kind of an idea I put out there. My dad was actually born in Italy and I’m not sure how, but when I was born he was able to apply for me to be a dual citizen. So, you know, it was like during COVID and stuff, and I was like, ‘hey, I don’t know how travelling is right now, but I have a European passport. Like, I could be out in Europe; it’s fine for me. But yeah, it would be sick to go and film with Jesus.’ That was like a big thing for me: I really wanted to make sure Jesus had some footage in this Chocolate video.
Simon Bannerot, switch frontside 360, Munich. Ph.Fabian Reichenbach
Thanks for doing that! Love some Jesus footage…
Yeah, so I just approached Sam, Rick and Mike. And I was like, ‘hey, if I can get to Copenhagen, I’ll hang out with him for a couple weeks, however long and film a bunch of stuff’ and they were down with it. And then their idea was like,‘oh, bring Carl and Erik. That way they can meet Jesus and also film.’ And it ended up working out perfectly and we didn’t go during Copenhagen Open so we were able to avoid all the partying and like the large crowds and just stay in the streets. I think it was a productive trip for sure.
And you did that little
slice of life thing with Jesus
as well, right?
Yeah, see that’s just like my little kind of Crailtap nerd mind there, like, ‘let’s do a slice of life or something?’ So I was so stoked to be able to do that for sure.
Dan Fisher-Eustance, switch backside nosebluntslide, London. Ph. James Griffiths
And then have you met some of the legendary alumni of Crailtap? Like Aaron Meza, Ty Evans and Spike Jonze?
Yeah. I mean, obviously, like Federico, who I’m now very good friends with… I haven’t met Ty, but yeah I got to meet Spike during the filming for
Bunny Hop
last fall. He’s kind of like the Chuck, Skate Barn dude (from
The Chocolate Tour
), but grown up and that was pretty cool to see him kind of just dive into a character like that (for
Bunny Hop
). And he was super nice too off camera; it was cool to meet him. And Meza too actually… I feel like I’ve kind of talked to him here and there online, like super quick, but I got to meet him this time, on this past trip to Copenhagen. We went out for breakfast one time with him, Sam and McCrank. So that was really cool because honestly Meza for me is like a big inspiration. Just like all his work through Crailtap during those late 2000s, like that’s kind of my favourite kind of stuff and favourite kind of videos. I think that’s what got me sparked on Crailtap.
Are you continuing the tradition of trying to get a little clip of Smyth eating some food for the end of an edit?
Yeah, exactly. I got one on this trip too. But just to go back to the Crailtap influences even Roger Bagley… Getting to know him, and again, like the work that he did when he was working for Crailtap… Those are my favourite kinds of videos. Like the mini top fives and the slice of life stuff… So it’s also been really cool to become friends with him.
Simon Bannerot, switch backside wallride, Stuttgart. Ph.Fabian Reichenbach
A passing of the torch, so to speak… Okay so this past European trip, where I met you in Copenhagen, where all else did you go and who went?
Yeah so we started in Munich and then we went to Stuttgart, then from there we had a little Copenhagen break.
We were kind of just there for the contest. We didn’t really do much street skating. It’s hard to do it… And then once the contest ended, we went to Bristol and then spent the last few days in London. It was all the new dudes, like all the kids on the team, and then plus McCrank. So like Griffin, Niels, Simon, Manch, Rowan, Breezy and McCrank, me, Sam and John (Marello).
So any highlights from the trip or anything? Any memorable moments?
You know, it’s kind of crazy, because it seems like a long time ago… But definitely like meeting Dougie (George) and Dan (Fisher-Eustance); that was sick to have them on the trip. They were definitely bringing some good vibes and that was like on our last leg of the trip too. I think some people were obviously getting pretty worn out by this point and these guys brought some new life into the trip. I remember there was this bump to fence spot and there were a whole lot of people outside… I think it was a hotel and there was a conference or something going on and the dude kicked us out, but Griffin kind of calmed him down and became like a doorman and made sure that people were not in the way.
And so Dougie backside flipped this huge bump to fence like super quick and just everyone there, like the whole team, was cheering and a bunch of pedestrians too. And then Simon backed him up with a heelflip and yeah, that was just like a really cool moment.
Dougie George, backside 180 kickflip, Bristol. Ph. James Griffiths
Sick…
In the clip you can hear everyone screaming… I just like those kinds of moments on trips when everyone’s together.
And now you get to experience these things with this crew in person, as part of your dream job, for your favourite skate brand. All this for just wanting to see more of the Crail guys’ clips all together…
Yeah, it was just strictly out of love. And it’s really cool that they saw that.
And you know people do those remixes and stuff all the time, so it’s cool that they invited me out (to Cali); I really want to thank Feds for that, because it kind of just kept that fire burning… Anytime I would get to meet these guys or go out there I would just try and keep it going, like keep that connection going. I think being persistent about that is what really helped me. Because I could have just, you know, gone to the premiere and that was that.
Persistence pays off…
I didn’t ever want to be like a try-hard or anything, but I definitely wanted to put some effort in and see where it takes me. And yeah, it ended up working out somehow, I have no idea, but I’m super stoked.
Dan Fisher-Eustance, frontside 360, London. Ph. James Griffiths

================================================================================

BY Will  •  December 14, 2020
Lenin Plaza
Some of the most recognisable visual images of communist Russia are the monuments and statues of Vladimir Lenin. Lenin was one of the top leaders of the Russian Revolution (October 1917) and after his death, all the way up to the Soviet breakup, Lenin was idolised and memorialised all around the USSR (soviet Russia has around 15,000 Lenin statues and monuments). Pretty much every city and almost every village all around the country has a street and square named after Lenin.
When the USSR collapsed, for most regular Russian people Lenin became a symbol of the misled past, but newborn street cultures made his monuments their home. Central locations, big pedestrian areas around the monuments, good flatground and skate-friendly architecture made of marble and granite blocks were some of the reasons why skaters gravitated towards them and they rapidly became the first go-to spots where skaters would meet and hang out.
Now, 28 years later, Lenin monuments are still central day-to-day spots in many big Russian cities including Moscow and Saint Petersburg, appearing in tons of different local and international skateboarding videos over the years.
In 2019 Vans Russia’s Alexey Krasniy worked on a solo project that focused on these monuments, managing to get clips at 20 different Lenins, spread across 15 different cities.
Hopefully this interview will shed some light on this project as well as Alexey’s impressions and thoughts on Lenin’s skateboarding heritage.
Photography by Alexey Lapin
Interview by Kirill Korobkov
Do you remember the first time you went to skate a Lenin monument?
Alexey Krasniy: Yes, the first Lenin that I skated was in Moscow. I think Lenin’s plaza was the second spot of my life. I only skated around Victory Park before that then one day my classmate told me that he had seen skaters by Lenin. Conveniently for us there was a direct bus from our neighbourhood all the way to Lenin so I started going there a lot. Back then it was one of the main spots in Moscow and it still is. This spot will never get old. It’s where I met many of my first skate friends and I remember learning how to 360 flip down curbs and small things there. For ages the bottom level of the plaza had certain lines of good flat we had to take approaching the manual pad and ledges. Even though the spot was already good, it was a bit annoying to skate it like that. Four or five years ago the city renovated the whole plaza and Lenin got some perfect floor made of stone. It was one of those moments when a great spot got even better for skateboarding. I can’t imagine Moscow without this spot.
Alexey Krasniy, backside bluntslide, Ulan-Ude.
How often do you normally go there to skate?
I am not a big fan of starting the day there because it’s too easy to get stuck there for the whole day. I like going there for the sunsets. When it’s summer in Moscow I visit Lenin every other day. I think maybe 3-4 times a week. We have a winter break when there is snow all over Moscow and we can’t skate outside so when spring finally comes usually Lenin is the first spot that dries up. So everyone goes there to meet each other for the first street session after winter. It’s another moment at this spot that I especially like.
When I told you about this idea for the project that is based on skating only Lenin’s monuments all over Russia, you seemed to be very down for it straight away. What did you like about this concept?
It sounded challenging and that’s what I liked about it. I knew there would be a lot of travelling and I understood that I would struggle at some Lenins just because I’d have to at least get something. But all in all it sounded like a good idea and a good way to represent skateboarding in Russia, because pretty much every Russian city has a Lenin monument and in many cities it is the place where local skateboarding started.
Alexey Krasniy, frontside nosebluntslide, Moscow.
The first destination for this project was very special. We flew six hours to the city called Ulan-Ude. If we’d flown from Moscow in the opposite direction for the same amount of time we’d be in Greenland. But yeah, we flew east for six hours and it was still Russia. It was also a Buddhist part of Russia. I don’t think too many people outside of Russia realise that there is Buddhism in Russia. That whole place was extraordinary. Can you recall your memories from Ulan-Ude?
First of all we got solid jet lag. Russia is so big that you can get jet lag without leaving the country. The second special thing is that the area we went to is called the Republic of Buryatia. In Russia we have many different nationalities and Buryats are one of the bigger ethnic groups that live around there in Siberia. They are really close to Mongols.
That’s where the interest in Buddhism comes from. In Ulan-Ude Russians and Buryats are mixed. Whilst there we tried the Buryat national dish (buuzy) that reminded us of huge meat dumplings and we also visited some Buddhist temples. It’s unusual to see Buddhist religious architecture mixed with Russian landscapes. The city was built on the hills and has a good potential for downhill skating, but the pavements and all the roads were really rugged, dusty and old.
On the first night after dinner the locals took us on a spot tour around the city. We were already a little bit tired and generally felt sceptical about what they would show us in the middle of Siberian nowhere, but we agreed to go on the ride just to be polite. They sure proved our suspicions wrong… They took us to maybe seven or eight different spots and each of them were actually great in their own way. They weren’t just good ledge spots or nice stairs; we saw metal full pipes, amazing banks and bump combinations, abandoned fountains and a natural transition under an airplane. The next day we even had to take a break from Lenin and skate some other street spots from the night before just because they were that good. Around a couple issues ago Free ran a photo of my backside grab off the metal street ramp under the airplane in the gallery section. That was in Ulan-Ude. And the Lenin there was insane too. The typical Lenin monument has either a full statue of Lenin’s body or just his bust. In Ulan-Ude they built just a huge and surreal looking head and that was it. The plaza around it turned out to be ledge paradise with all kinds of curbs, small stairs and off ledges. It was almost skatepark good. It was a great start to the story.
Dima Shatalov, kickflip over the rail, Omsk.
I am not going to be repetitive and ask about every city we went to, but on that Siberian leg of the project we also visited Novosibirsk. People all around the world know that Russia’s capital and the largest city is Moscow. Saint Petersburg, the second biggest, is quite famous too, but there is absolutely no international fame or even info on Novosibirsk, Russia’s third biggest city. How was that place?
I liked the local skate crew but not the city. It looks like everyone forgot that this city exists and everything is just slowly getting wrecked. I can remember only one well-maintained street in the city centre. The rest of the city looked like it was just ruins of Soviet infrastructure. We tried to cruise around a bit but gave up on this idea very quickly. The cracks and holes in the sidewalks were unbearable. But yeah, the locals were cool. Right when we were there they started working on the very first DIY in their city. I think with the poor condition of infrastructure around the place it was the right step to keep skateboarding in Novosibirsk alive. They took over a little abandoned park behind the opera theatre and started with a small concrete bump and square flatbar. By the end of the season they had a full on little DIY spot with five or six different obstacles. I remember right on the very first day of construction the local skaters already had a conflict with some official types who came with a car. Even though the public park looked like no one cared about it, the authorities repeatedly tried to stop all the DIY works. In the end the skate community was strong enough to protect their dream and fully realise the idea. I liked that. Hope they will be able to keep it going.
Alexey Krasniy, roll in, Novosibirsk.
What was the hardest thing for you with this project?
I was the only skater on the first trip. That was the Siberian journey we spoke about before. That was pretty hard. Everyone who skates knows how much easier it is to get inspired and get things done when you are with a solid crew. You, Alexey and our filmer Mikas were with me but I am sure you understand what I mean. But that was only one trip. Thinking more generally quite often it was hard to come up with an idea for the trick. I mean most of those monuments are great spots but imagine yourself in position when you are in the city just for one day or even a few hours (we had a few cities where we didn’t even stay overnight) and you need to film a legit trick and shoot a photo. Also most of those monuments are 40-50 years old. Some of them have never been repaired and were imperfect to skate: they had cracks, weird run-ups, some ledges were already ground down by locals and others were too sticky to make them slide. If it was a regular skate trip I could be like: ‘I don’t feel this spot too much; let’s go the next one.’ But with this project I had to try to get at least one trick at every single Lenin we went to. I guess this was the hardest part but that was a cool part about it at the same time.
Alexey Krasniy, backside kickflip, Novosibirsk.
And what was the best part?
To see the piece coming together was my favourite thing. After every city we’d been to we’d add new clips to the timeline and with every new clip it looked better and better and I felt happier and happier about it. I have to give thanks to our filmer Mikas. Working on such a project was a great experience.
Vladimir Lenin was a very controversial character. Some people say he was a godfather of one of the most powerful countries of the 20th century. Others call him a criminal who initiated repressions and a bloody civil war. How did people react to skateboarding around his monuments in 2019?
Mostly people didn’t care but elderly people were more sensitive about Lenin and skateboarding. I can remember one exception… It was in Novosibirsk, the monument there is massive, and it has a huge pedestal and also sculptures of workers and labour class people. It has many options to skate. It has been the main skate spot in the city for many years but almost this whole time there have been confrontations between skaters and the authorities. There is a small police booth right by the monument. The locals told us to wait until 7pm when police have left their shift. Exactly at 7pm the policemen went away and we expected to start a great session since we still had three more hours of daylight before the sunset. When it’s summer in Russia it gets dark very late. We jumped on the spot but got stopped in ten minutes by very young scouts or I guess I can call them volunteers with red armbands. They had no official police or patrol status but I think it was the call of their hearts to protect Lenin’s monument. There is a strong communist party in Novosibirsk and even the mayor is communist, which isn’t normal for Russia these days. I think they felt like they were changing the city for the better but I’ve already described the condition of that city and honestly they have so many things to fix and problems to solve that skaters at Lenin should be one of the last things the city should care about at this point. When we were in Cheboksary someone called the police because of us; they showed up right when we finished the session and were packing up our gear. They talked to us for maybe 15 minutes, got our filmer’s passport details and let us go. Also in Orenburg we had a gnarly debate. The Lenin there was right by the city hall. As soon as we started skating a security guard showed up to kick us out. Since we had a little crew he couldn’t do much on his own, so we just kept skating. He went back and a few minutes later his boss came over. I think he was the head of the security department at the city hall or some kind of local government. We could see from the distance he was already pissed by the fact he had got bothered because of us. He started yelling straight away but his aggression turned us into tough cookies. His main argument was that he had done military service and when he saw that this didn’t impress us much he just went nuts. In his world, his military background automatically gave him the status of a terminator and he was sure that the truth was always on his side. It looked like we were the first ones in a long time who didn’t obey his rules. We kept yelling at each other for a few more minutes but the dialog wasn’t going anywhere so we just skated away. In the end in his city he definitely had way more power and authority. Who knows where we could have ended up? It could have been risky.
Alexey Krasniy, drop down to early grab wallride, Moscow.
It was your solo project but in some cities there are guest tricks by some of your Vans Russia teammates. Can you give us more info on the rest of the guys who were involved?
Most of the guest tricks were done by Dima Shatalov and Alexey Meleshko. Both of them were able to join our second big trip dedicated to skating Lenins. Dima is a character. He is the only guy on our Russian team who lives far away from Moscow and Saint Petersburg. We barely know what he does for a living. His newest big passion is cryptocurrency. While most people believe in Bitcoins, Dima works with Satoshi coins. It’s a lesser-known cryptocurrency. I am not sure how he organised his whole enterprise but he calls it traffic monitoring. Somehow he integrates ads in applications on Google Play and Google is supposed to pay him for that. He is also good at singing and drinking alcohol. His native city is an epicentre of Russian rap music and he is a friend of all those rap celebrities. As for his personal music taste, he has the wildest collection of the worst Russian music you can find. His playlist is so bad that everyone loves it. It’s very entertaining to be around him. We call the second guy (Alexey Meleshko) Melekha. He works at a tire service. Since we have proper winters all the drivers change their tires twice a year. When it gets cold everyone needs snow tires. Half a year later everyone changes them over to summer tires. Most of his budget comes from those seasonable peaks. He is a legend in the Russian skate scene in my eyes. He has been shredding for many years and he still kills it. A couple years ago he filmed a street part in Berlin that ended up on the
Free Skate Mag
site. Also Roma Ivanov, Jenya Nikolaev and Denis Yuzefovich didn’t get photos in but they’ll have guest tricks in the edit.
Alexey Krasniy, backside tailslide, Saint Petersburg.
As I said at some Lenins you had only a few hours before there was a train or bus to the next city, but in the city of Miass, the timing at the spot was limited to 15 minutes. Let’s go through that hectic session.
Ok, on that trip we were really on a Lenin run. We camped by the lake nearby the night before. Locals helped us with tents and all the camping gear but they really wanted us to do a demo the next day. There was a skatepark opening in the city nearby the following day. It was a small industrial city that has never seen proper skateboarding before. They’ve just got their first skatepark. Even though we were in a rush to make it to the next city me, Dima and Melekha were like, ‘sure, why not, let’s do a demo for the kids.’ The demo went down well and we all felt really warmed up after it. At that point some of the locals reminded us they had a Lenin in their city too. We checked the time and realised we had less than an hour before the bus to the next city. Also the route was a bit weird so the next bus to the destination we needed was only 24 hours later. We were still so hyped about the demo that we felt like, ‘fuck it. Let’s go to the spot.’ Usually Lenin’s monuments are located as central as possible but for some reason that Lenin turned out to be slightly outside of the city. We called the taxis and they took us to Lenin. When we made it to the spot we had only half an hour before the bus. Also we did all these taxi runs and drives with all of our luggage. When we finally got there we realised we literally only had a few minutes. There was an easy way to slappy grind the ledge across and down and that’s what I did in a couple tries but we all felt like it wasn’t good enough for the clip. The mission wasn’t complete but I also knew that slappy 5-0 or slappy anything else would be way harder and there was no time for that. I took a second to look at the spot one more time and figured out there was a possibility to drop down to a short manual after the slappy 50-50 I had already got. I am not a manual skater but somehow I managed to put it together in a few tries and we got a proper trick. The spirits were really high. We kept one of the taxis for this whole session and half of our crew had already gone to the bus station. They managed to block the bus and we all made it. That day luck was on our side. We started the party on that bus later.
Alexey Krasniy, pop shove-it landing on the narrow ledge, Novosibirsk.
Yes, it was one of those moments that made me really enjoy this project. Can you recall any other crazy or funny situations we went through?
We were on the train on the way to Orenburg. Around seven in the morning, just about an hour before arrival, you got a message that our airBnB booking got cancelled.
Oh, yes, I remember that. We had no time to look for another apartment so I went online and booked for us a random hotel that seemed to have a very good price. In that position I couldn’t be too picky and analyse all the reviews so I booked whatever was available that morning. I also called them and they told me that there was no need to wait ’til midday for check in. We could go there straight from the train. I thought that was very nice of them. Only the name of the hotel was a bit weird: ‘The Golden Mile’. Now tell everyone what happened after…
The place was located in a private housing area. Very quickly we realised that it was a mix of a sauna complex and a brothel. That place had rooms with beds but it was obvious that customers didn’t use those beds to sleep. The girls at the reception couldn’t believe we’d arrived there to stay but not to have sex. Nevertheless we decided to stay there overnight and got one of those funky pink rooms with erotic paintings on the walls, artificial roses, golden coloured sheets and pillows and see-through shower cabins. The words ‘Golden Mile’ have a new meaning for us.
Lenin in Magnitogorsk.
While working on this project we saw many different local scenes in different parts of Russia. What’s the current status of skateboarding in Russia outside of Moscow and Saint Petersburg?
We already talked about Novosibirsk. Their scene is a sign that we have far away scenes that are grown up enough to take care of themselves and keep skateboarding as a long-term activity. I really liked the Krasnoyarsk skaters too. After we were done with Lenin the guys there took us on a proper cruise around the city. We spontaneously pushed around and hit small things along the way. They know how to enjoy skateboarding. Thanks to Markel Andronov and Denis for showing us around. Omsk was nice too, but I can’t say that every city we went to had proper skate scenes. Some big cities barely had skaters who could kickflip on flat. The biggest problem for smaller Russian cities is everything skate-related is in Moscow or Saint Petersburg. Most of the Russian brands, national offices, skate shops, teams and sponsors are in the capital. It’s very hard to progress when there is no industry around you.
Alexey Meleshko, blindside kickflip, Magnitogorsk.
You skated 20 different Lenins. How many did you fail to get a trick on?
Out of all the monuments we went to I couldn’t get tricks on only two Lenins. One of them was in Orenburg where we had that conflict and the second one was in Dubna. Dubna is a science city 120 kilometres away from Moscow. It contains the second biggest Lenin in the world. We went there by car. There were almost no spots at it but the size of the monument and it’s monumental look made me try a line with four different drops in it. I spent two hours ‘til it got dark and I couldn’t get it. I wish I did. It was a great Lenin for our collection. We wanted to come back but it got too cold.
Can you tell me a bit about the soundtrack?
It’s a cover version of a popular Soviet song dedicated to the Communist Revolution and Vladimir Lenin. The irony of the soundtrack is that our version was sung by the Siberian punk rock band named Grazhdanskaya Oborona who were very anti-Soviet. They were sarcastic about the Soviet implementation of the Communist idea. To do this cover version was an act of sarcasm in itself. When we were in Omsk we visited the grave of the founder of this band.
We visited many Lenins and we talked a lot about him during the project. What’s your personal attitude towards Vladimir Lenin?
He came with the revolution. It doesn’t matter what idea he had at first he initiated the Russian Civil War and that led to many casualties and some of the darkest pages in the history of our country. He was idolised and idealised by the Soviet regime but he caused many troubles and committed many crimes. I am not ready to close my eyes on the Red Terror he started and invented. This approach isn’t my cup of tea.
Alexey Krasniy, frontside lipslide, Chelyabinsk.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 28, 2021
Hugo Boserup Interview
Backside smith grind, Glendale, California. Ph. Ben Colen
It was never really the plan for this Hugo interview to sit alongside all these
stories of older European pros moving to California to ‘make it’
(it snuck into this issue at the last minute), but in retrospect it would definitely have been a missed opportunity if it didn’t. For starters it made us realise that we couldn’t really think of any other young sponsored skaters from Europe – as in of Hugo’s generation – to have moved to the States in the last few years, which in itself is already kind of interesting in this context. But the main thing is the stark contrast between his experience of it and theirs. It’s almost comical: he’s 22, moved to LA to be with this amazing
surfer
he’s fallen in love with (as opposed to it being the only way he’d stand a chance of having career in skateboarding), immediately settled down into living what sounds like the dreamiest of ‘American Dreams’, and is about to become a dad. A far cry from all the fucked up, precarious situations Chany, Benny and co. found themselves in when they decided to try their luck out west.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
Hugo! Where to even begin… It’s been so long!
Yeah… How do you want to do this? Can we just have a conversation?
Well first off that does not look like Copenhagen… Why don’t you tell me how the hell you’ve ended up in LA!
It’s only because I met Frankie (Harrer)… We met here close to two years ago. It started off with a lot of going back and forth between LA and Copenhagen; I guess we were trying to figure out where it could actually work for us to be together. Since she’s a surfer she can’t really live in Copenhagen, as there isn’t really any surfing to do there… But also a lot of the places that are really good for surfing are often a bit too remote for skating. So we decided that we’d try here.
I only got my proper visa at the end of 2020, but I was spending a lot of time here even before then.
Ride-on backside tailslide, Los Angeles. Ph. Kris Burkhardt
So for how long are you allowed to stay now?
Five years. I got this like Athlete/Sports visa… I got super lucky too because it’s the only one that Trump didn’t ban when he locked down all the travel at the beginning of the pandemic.
And I guess it also made sense because my friend Logan (Lara) who I love to skate with and film with also lives here so I can still be productive!
So is Frankie an actual professional surfer then?
Yeah!
Forgive my ignorance here, but how does it work? Like does she have to go out every day to try to get clips and stuff?
Yeah, it’s exactly the same as everyone around you that skates for a living. You have a main sponsor that pays you and you go out and do stuff for them basically… There’s a bunch of different scenes at a bunch of different beaches, some spots will have one person on the beach filming a few different surfers, some will have their own filmer and they’ll try to look for places where only they’ll surf or whatever, but it’s exactly the same as skating. You just hunt beaches with waves like you would spots and try to get clips there.
Ah man living with someone that knows what it feels like to stack would be so good ha ha. The days when you get home and you’ve both got something you’re hyped on must be amazing…
Yeah! Because it’s honestly exactly the same.
Also I guess both of you having similar jobs with the same kind of flexibility is also pretty ideal for the little girl you guys have on the way!
Yeah we’ve spoken a lot about that. We’re very lucky to be in positions where it’s not too hard to take the time off we need for it. And then once we’re going to have to start going on trips again we’re hoping we can negotiate for her to have to bring a babysitter so I can go on all her trips ha ha.
Ph. Ben Colen
Ah mate that would be so sick! ‘Cause you surf a lot as well now right?
Yeah she got me into it and it’s soooo fun. It’s weird because you think it’s like skating in the sense that you have that balance when it comes to moving on a board like that, and maybe turning a bit, but for everything else you’re just completely clueless. It was really hard for me to learn but now we can go and surf together and it’s really fun.
Have you been getting her on skating?
Yeah during lockdown we’d go to parking lots and I’d try to teach her to slappy grind. Sometimes she’d fall so we’d chill on it a bit… But she’s super good at cruising and stuff! You can tell being a good surfer helps in the way you’re already good at thinking fast with your body movements and stuff… If that makes sense.
Ah man it would be the sickest thing ever if she got proper into it and she’d go on your trips to skate some of the spots/babysit too. Need to get that in your next contracts…
Yeah it would be such a life hack.
Ride-on 50-50, Los Angeles. Ph. Ben Colen
Did you get any good advice from any other young dads with ‘skate careers’ that you know?
Not at all actually ha ha. I’ve been chatting to Hjalte (Halberg) a bit but mainly just about how excited we are… I guess when Brass (Nick Boserio) had his kid I was really interested and asked some questions though. I think he managed to agree with his sponsors that he wouldn’t go on any trips for the first three months until he was more settled in, which I think will be the same for me but even after that I don’t really want to be going on any long trips, but one week ones could work…
Yeah and you can get a lot done in a week.
Obviously there’s a lot of uncertainty around almost everything at the moment but are there any advantages to taking this big step now?
Well it’s good because everything’s kind of at a stand still so we’re not required to go anywhere. So I’ve been able to be at home lots helping as much as I can if Frankie’s not been feeling well or just with anything really.
Yeah and I guess lockdown is kinda the ultimate test for any couple. If you can get through months and months of being together all day every day that’s a pretty good sign.
Yeah I mean we haven’t spent a day apart for a whole year so I feel like we’ve got this ha ha.
Ollie, Los Angeles. Ph. Ben Colen
You mentioned Logan earlier and being productive and stuff… You guys aren’t a part of 917 anymore though right? What happened there with the whole mass exodus thing?
Okay so 917 was always cool because it was a brand where there was never really any pressure and it kind of floated itself. Like nothing was ever really organised or anything like that, it was kind of just our drive that made it work. And throughout the whole thing Alex (Olson) wasn’t so involved in the skating side of it, he was mainly focused on making the graphics and that kind of stuff but then it being so loose meant that sometimes it would lead to people butting heads about the direction of graphics or doing trips or whatever, so in the end not that much stuff would actually happen. It just felt like things that shouldn’t be difficult would always somehow be really difficult. And it wasn’t just Alex, like there was also other stuff with other management…
So obviously Aidan (Mackey) left quite a while ago, but then when Vincent (Touzery) quit and then Nik (Stain) quit that was really painful. I was really sad but I understood you know, they wanted to be more active, it was an opportunity to make more money… This was probably just over a year ago and when it happened we all knew it was bad but I guess we were like ‘it’s okay, let’s try to make it work; we can still make this sick!’ Only after that Cyrus (Bennett) did that Slap interview and I guess on all of the questions about 917 he just didn’t really have any answers – which I completely understand because there was no 917 thread or anything like we weren’t even talking that much, it just somehow just about worked. Plus he was trying to do all these graphics and him and Alex weren’t really getting along…
So did him doing the Slap interview kind of trigger him deciding to leave?
I think so yeah. I know he’d felt like that for a long time but he’d never had to speak about it publicly and doing so kind of made him realise… So he called Logan and had to be like, ‘dude I’m over it, I quit’. Me and Logan were together when this happened and we were both like, ‘dude don’t do it! We’re gonna make it work!’ But then we thought about it and knew he was probably right… We were all holding our careers back in what we could do; it felt like we all had more potential than this. Like we’d never do trips! We’d just film wherever we were basically and that’s it. Tao (Tor Ström) and so many people helped out so much with footage… So Cyrus was going to quit and then Max (Palmer) was going to quit… And I was a bit like, ‘I don’t wanna be left behind!’ ha ha. It was all a bit crazy.
So is Alex still doing it?
I think so but I’m not too sure; I think he’s just surfing a lot. He seems fine with it being like this…
What just without a team?
Yeah I guess… So now we’re all just skating random boards until we figure what’s going to happen.
Frontside air to tail smack, Los Angeles. Ph. Aaron Loreth
Well being in LA closer to all those guys will probably help with whatever comes next.
Yeah and most of the industry is still here…
I love that Aaron (Loreth) ended up shooting a photo for this… The photographer line-up for the interview is so sick. Ben Colen who’s arguably one of the greatest skate photographers of all time, Kris (Burkhardt) whose stuff is only just starting to really get out there but is obviously super talented, and then yeah Aaron who I had no idea even shot skate photos.
Yeah! Aaron’s super into film photography, like he takes all these really cool nature stills, but he definitely wouldn’t describe himself as a skate photographer. And that’s probably why I found the process of shooting this photo so fun I think. It’s a cool thing to do with a friend like that, we were really like, ‘uh, so how do we get the transition in, and the trick… And the fence? Hmm here from the side? From here?’ Really trying to work it out together. I’m glad you guys liked it!
Yeah I love it. I remember when Sam (Ashley) saw it he was like, ‘it’s kind of weird, but in a good way. It looks like something from
Thrasher
in 1982 or something.’
Ha ha yeah that’s kind of what we thought.
Can you describe what a regular day looks like for you with your new life in LA?
I’ve got a feeling it’s pretty different from when you were working building skateparks in Copenhagen through the winter…
I wake up and I put on sunscreen. Then if there’s waves we go surfing in the morning, probably get burnt despite the sunscreen being water resistant, then eat something, more sweat/sport resistant sunscreen, then drive somewhere to meet people to skate and get burnt some more ha ha. Then do it all over again the next day.
I was gonna say, you are looking pretty pink ha ha!
And then when I was working on building the skateparks… I haven’t actually thought about that in a long time ha ha, it was actually so gnarly. It would be: wake up at five, have a coffee, get ready… It can be dark ‘til about eight in winter in Denmark so you sometimes work at least two hours before the sun even comes up. You prepare all the wooden frames, prepare the rebar steel that goes into the concrete… If it’s a day where you actually pour the concrete – or rather two days because sometimes it takes two days for it to dry because it’s so cold… So you have to work on it all day, then once the sun goes down the concrete is so slow at drying that you need to give it a pass with all the tools, then I guess you get to relax for an hour or two in your shed, then you go out and give it another pass, back to the shed and repeat until midnight maybe, then you let it chill until five or something then you get up and hit it again. It’s a harsh routine…
Ph. Ben Colen
It sounds like pretty good training for when the baby arrives.
Ha ha yeah my inner clock’s been prepared.
Ah well it was lovely to catch up! You seem very happy out there.
Yeah I’m definitely the happiest I’ve been right now… And also the most motivated I’ve been in a long time, which is a really good feeling. You know how with skating sometimes you go through phases? Like when I started surfing I became so obsessed with it that I basically didn’t skate for two months. But now that I’ve gotten that out of the way, and feel good about everything, I actually really want to go filming, progress and learn new things again.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 4, 2021
The American Dream (part 4 of 6): Benny Fairfax
The American Dream
is a series of six interviews with European pros, looking back at their experiences of moving to California to pursue skateboarding careers.
Stereo Ad, 2009.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
So for you it all started with Jason Lee and Chris Pastras inviting you out there right?
Benny Fairfax: Yeah. I met them on a WESC trip to Sweden… We skated together for a couple of days and one evening they mentioned that they were starting Stereo up again and asked if I would like to show them some footage. So Chez (Neil Chester) – who I’d been filming with for the
Sidewalk
video
– made a little mixtape. I guess he put some tune on there that Jason Lee liked, and they were like, ‘Let’s bring this kid out to the States.’ So I went to LA…
Did they pay for your ticket out there?
You know what I don’t actually remember… They must have. It was all very loose though… I remember thinking that just them inviting me meant I was on Stereo and stuff but that it was only after I’d been there for a while hanging out with them that they were like, ‘you know what, we like you – you’re on the team. You can stay,’ kind of thing.
‘Oh… I thought I was already on.’
Yeah kind of ha ha.
Where were you staying?
I was kinda living between both of their houses at first.
What was Jason Lee’s place like?
I mean he was a Hollywood movie star so yeah it was a nice place for sure… And he had this girl working for him, I guess she was his maid or his PA or something, and she’d just like sort out all his life and then make me sandwiches and give me a lift to the skate spot ha ha.
What?! Were you a bit like, ‘what am I doing here?’
Yeah totally… I mean also I didn’t know anyone there, had never been to America before… I had no clue what to expect. But they were both really nice and accommodating!
When did you get your own place?
Well uh what happened first is that one day I told Chris Pastras, who I’d been staying with at that point, ‘ah man I’ve figured out my flight, my travel visa, like I’m good for three months now!’ And he sort of replied, ‘ah cool man, where are you gonna live?
Ha ha.
And I was just like, ‘ahhhhh…’ I was not expecting that ha ha. So I said: ‘I met these kids that said I could stay at their house, so it’s cool.’ Just because I really didn’t want to go home. I’d met quite a few people at that point, I’d been there for a little while just skating all these spots I’d seen in the videos in the sun… So I was like, ‘ah don’t worry I’ll figure it out for myself’ sort of thing.
Where did you actually stay then?
I met this Armenian kid, Joe, who lived in an apartment with his mum and dad and sister… In a two-bedroom flat… His mom and dad would sleep on two couches together and I would just sleep on the floor in his room. And he was like, ‘don’t worry man, it’s cool, it’s all good, come stay.’ And this kid had a car and was just stoked to drive me around skating every day showing me spots and taking me to college house parties at night!
How would you link up with people?
At that point I didn’t have a phone but I had this little mini black phone book where Chris Pastras had written down all these filmers and photographers’ phone numbers… So my morning routine was: wake up, grab a coffee, go to the phone box with a big fist full of quarters and just like call all of these numbers. ‘Hi, you don’t know me but my name’s Benny. I got your number from Chris Pastras and Jason Lee and I’m just seeing if it’s cool if I come skate with you today?’
Ha ha. Was anyone just like ‘naaaaah’?
I mean the majority of people were cool but it was really like, ‘okay… What’s going on today?’ and before you know it you’re in some random car park with Ronnie Creager and Aaron Snyder ha ha. Or you’re in a car driving to pick up Terry Kennedy deeeeep in Long Beach.
Okaaaay… How was that?
I mean I don’t know if it was actually that sketchy or not but I was a little kid and all these people coming straight up to the car like: ‘give me some change’ and when you’d drive through you’d have these guys peering in going, ‘what are you doing here?’ so I was a bit like, ‘oh shit…’ At times it definitely felt like I was in an Eazy-E video ha ha.
Plus Terry showed me the bullet holes in his house. He was like: ‘yeah you know, from a drive by’ and it was not long after that his friend Black Mike – rest in peace – got shot and killed… And apparently they were after Terry… He wore a bulletproof vest the whole time on that first day I met him… I also saw him after he had been shot in the mouth and he had all kinds of wire and rubber bands keeping his mouth and face together, so messed up!
Nollie heelflip, Los Angeles, 2006. Ph. John Bradford
Fucking hell.
Oh actually also I skated with Terrell Robinson a few times – who was also from the South Central/Compton area – and on one day he showed up with a stray bullet in his leg/bum. They were waiting to remove it or something and I remember him being like, ‘yeah hey check it out, the bullet is still in there,’ just poking it ha ha.
As you do…
Yeah! Ha ha. Mental. They were both really cool though! But yeah just chatting to them you could tell it was a whole other world out there you know? I was 19 or something, coming from New Forest in the south of England ha ha, I was tripping.
Were you like talking to your family much when you were out there? Were they worried at all?
Yeah, they were definitely a bit worried but they were also really excited for me. This is what I’d been banging on about since I was 12 years old you know? ‘This is what I’m gonna do, look at this video mum!’ Actually I remember at the very beginning when she found out Jason Lee was a Scientologist and she was like, ‘don’t you dare ever get involved in that. I’ve heard about it, it’s not good.’
Ha ha, good advice mum.
Yeah, definitely yeah.
Did Jason Lee ever try to speak to you about any of that shit?
No. Although quite early on Chris did give me and Clint Peterson this little pep talk. It went something like, ‘don’t ever just mention Scientology… Don’t ever be like: “hey Jason what’s up with that Scientology shit” or don’t ever be like: “oh hey so-and-so’s a Scientologist or blah blah.” In fact don’t even ever utter that word and you’ll be fine.’ And Clint was just like, ‘honestly act like it never comes into your mind and everything will be cool.’
So I obviously never did, and it was all good. Because he was a nice guy; we were mates you know? When I lived just with him he had a key to this private park (Steve) Berra had before the Berrics and he’d drive me there in his little Mini Cooper to skate all night. Ah man he drove like a fucking maniac ha ha. But yeah I guess he hadn’t skated for ages as he’d gotten into acting so he was loving being back on it.
How long were you out there for in total?
I did three three-year P1 visas, which are for ‘extraordinary persons’ ha ha, or artists or whatever. But then I’d also come back most summers as well. To be honest a lot of the years blur into one big blob of a memory but it was the best part of ten years, long enough to get the piss ripped out of me by the boys at the Waterloo Palace for sounding like an American every time I’d come back ha ha.
What kind of money were you on at that point?
At first I literally just had 300 bucks from Sole Tech/éS and that was like my lifeline, BIG THANK YOU to Tony E and Mark Waters RIP. And then maybe some photo incentive every now and then or whatever product I could sell… But I didn’t care; I just wanted to skate. I was always fully like, ‘there’s no way I’m going to go home; I’m going to make this work.’ After a while it turned into 300 from Sole Tech and the 300 from Stereo but yeah it was still years of being skint. I mean I could still chip in on rent but yeah it definitely wasn’t much. But honestly as I said I was just so stoked to be out there doing it that I really didn’t care. And I guess it wasn’t ‘til the end of 2006-ish that I got my first box of adidas so things were like that for a while but I loved it…
But also: about two weeks after I got my first pair I dislocated my ankle and broke my leg. As in it was facing the wrong way… I fully snapped it off basically; it was hectic!
Fuuuuck…
I remember trying to stand up and seeing that my leg was backwards… Then fire engine or ambulance noises… I went into shock and woke up in the hospital. Actually one thing I remember is that they had a whole fucking film crew with them that were from the Discovery Channel, and were like: ‘oh yeah we’re filming a documentary about paramedics in high crime areas,’ because this was like a few blocks over from skid row in downtown LA.
Anyway that took me out for a really long time… I had surgery, after waiting two weeks on painkillers, and I’ve now got a plate with like thirteen pins in my leg.
Frontside shove-it, New York City, 2008. Ph. Allen Ying
How did you pay for that?!
This is a good story actually… So I obviously had no health insurance, no travel insurance… I had my surgery done at a county hospital, which is basically where poor people with no health insurance go in America, there’s no NHS or anything like that… And that whole system is really not designed for people that don’t have a high income. Anyway yeah after I’ve had my surgery I was in the hospital and, oh man actually… I remember I was next to this kid, and we got chatting… And his story was that he’d basically been sat at home watching TV and a stray bullet from a drive-by had gone through the walls of his house into his foot, and when he stood up like ‘aaaargh I’ve been shot!’ his foot just shattered.
Ah man so bleak…
And I was sat right next to him when they came in and told him they wouldn’t be able to put his foot back together and they were going to have to amputate.
Nooo!
Yeah I was just there, when this kid found out that news. It was the most devastating shit. So gnarly.
I bet at that point you were like, ‘get me out of this place; I want to go home now.
’
I mean yeah it was like fuck the dream’s over. It’s done. This isn’t just a broken leg, this is a full-blown injury; I was on crutches for six months. Brian Brown, Tony Silva and all the boys that were out skating that day later told me that the whole thing really fucked them up too… As in seeing what happened to me that day led to them being scared to jump down stuff. Like they all got PTSD from that shit.
Man it sounds so traumatic… So go on then, how did you pay for the medical bills?
Oh yeah. Well after I’d had my surgery this hospital worker woman came to see me, doing her rounds, asking about my situation, if I had insurance, my financial situation, my immigration status, etc. and I was just like: ‘here’s my passport I’m from the UK, I don’t have any money or insurance…’ you know. And she goes, ‘well, you’re not going to be eligible for any kind of aid so you’re looking at about 47,000 dollars plus another 5k for your ambulance ride.’ I felt like she could see that when she said that my whole world had ended… But then she comes in close and she goes, ‘look don’t show anyone your ID, don’t tell anyone the story you’ve just told me, I’m going to put you in our system as a homeless person, and all you need is a handwritten letter from some person saying they provide you with food and shelter and that’s it, you won’t have to pay anything. My son’s a skateboarder…’
NO FUCKING WAY!
It was this woman’s job to go around and assess people’s situations, so it seemed like she’d seen the healthcare system fuck over so many people, every single day, that she just felt pity on me and she hooked me up! Nothing ever came of it. No bill, like that was it. I obviously bought her son loads of boards, bought her flowers, I told her she was my guardian angel and thanked her a million times… But yeah, that was it.
Were you pranging that your sponsors might drop you and stuff?
Yeah I thought it was all over but Chris and Jason were like, ‘look man, we know this is horrible for you, just get better, get stronger, do all your rehab, come back, we’ve got your back and you’ll still have a sponsor at the end of this.’ And the same with adidas! I was really lucky…
Which is crazy because not only had you just got on but it was also the very beginning of their skate program right?
Yeah… And when I came back I was nowhere near skating like I used to… Like on tippy toes I could barely do kickflips… I was just terrified of my fucking matchstick twig of a leg snapping again.
But eventually you did get better… And even somehow ended up in that first Battle Of The Berrics… And obviously The Berrics is super neeky now but those first games of S.K.A.T.E. were a massive deal. How did that even come about?
Yeah man when it started it was quite a big thing over there. And the people that were in it were legit you know? Fucking Mike Carroll was in it, Jeron Wilson, Heath (Kirchart), Erik Ellington, (Andrew) Reynolds… And obviously I wasn’t on that list initially; I definitely wasn’t cool enough to get in there, at all. But at that point I lived around the corner from The Berrics in this warehouse with this BMXer – actually do you remember Toy Machine’s Welcome To Hell? The BMXer that faceplants in the slam section?
Yeah… Ha ha.
Well I lived with that BMXer in a warehouse around the corner from The Berrics when it first opened. And we’d always go to this pub that Giovanni Reda would go to quite a lot… And I remember going up to him, after I’d had a couple of pints and being like: ‘Get me in there mate, I’ll take someone out, trust! ’Ha ha!
And the rest is history!
Okay I’m not too sure where this sits in relation to what we’ve just discussed but do you maybe want to do the Ethan Fowler story now so it’s out of the way… If you still feel comfortable telling it obviously.
Yeah ok fuck it, he deserves to get called out. So this is quite early on when I was over there…Actually maybe I need a beer for this, one sec (goes to the fridge)… Also before we get into it I want to make it very clear I met so many lovely people there, made so many good friends and overall had the best time. This is just one of the more negative things that happened to me when I was there…
I know…
Okay. So um… Obviously Ethan Fowler – OG Stereo legend – I looked up to his skating so much… Always thought he was a steez guy etc.
Yep. I mean…
Tincan Folklore
…
Yeah… But I was maybe not as aware as until I went out there just how much all those guys idolised him, how much he was like the fucking guy.
Anyway so I didn’t have a licence or a car so you know, once I was out on the sesh I was kind of at other people’s will… And one afternoon the guys I was with were all excited like: ‘hey dude we’re gonna BBQ at Ethan’s house and then we’re gonna go to his psychedelic rock show, it’s going to be fucking sick dude! Ethan’s the fucking coolest!’ You know like the sun shone out of his arse for them basically. Everyone loved him.
So we go to Ethan Fowler’s house, we have this little BBQ then it’s all ‘we’re going to the bar now like, Ethan’s band is going to play dude, sick’. So we were in some little basement bar in Downtown LA, and you know he plays his show – everyone’s had a few beers – whatever… It was really loud in there and so he just kinda cornered me like: ‘hey man, not too many n****rs in here is there? You must feel super out of place dude, look around.’ And I just, I just froze – like what the fuck? He knew that I was the little kid on the team, the new guy coming over here from England, and that he was in this position of power. Like I’m fucking Ethan Fowler, like I can say whatever I want to you. So yeah, ‘not too many n****rs in here, you must feel pretty out of place man.’ And I’m just like ‘errrr’ and I’ll never forget he looked me in the eyes smiling and said, ‘you probably want to punch me right now don’t you? But you’re not gonna are you?’ And then he walked off. I was left there frozen like, ‘oh fuck…’ I didn’t know what to do. I just left and got a taxi to wherever I was staying that night and that was kinda it.
Yeah I wanted to ask, did you not tell Pastras?
I actually never spoke to him about it, they’re really nostalgic about Stereo, Chris and Ethan go way back together and I knew that it would really upset him so I didn’t want to rock the boat and make an issue out of it…
Did you speak to anyone else about it?
Yeah I remember telling some of the other friends what happened and they were like, ‘ah Ethan probably just like had a few beers man, he didn’t mean anything by it…’
What the fuck, how could you brush over something like that?
Yeah they all pretty much swept it under the rug because it was Ethan and they all looked up to him. No one wanted to hear that shit. And looking back at it now I’m like – mate I’ve seen plenty of guys have plenty of beers but they don’t go whispering racist shit in little black boys ears after they’ve had a few…
I can’t help but feel like the power dynamic just makes it extra disgusting as well.
Yeah it makes it a little bit more ugly – it wasn’t just a weird back-handed comment that came out of nowhere by accident, he cornered me to say that.
Did you tell your mates in London about it?
Yeah and they were obviously like, ‘what the fuck?! Fuck that guy!’ you know… It was definitely a power trip for him. The look on his face… He enjoyed it… So yeah… Not very cool.
Did it make you consider dropping everything and going home?
No way, because it was quite early on in my time there and I was loving life, like I said this was just one bad thing that happened and one shitty person that I encountered. I was very much like the little new kid at that point, what was I going to say or do about it? So I tried to shrug it off I suppose… And growing up here in England, it wasn’t the first time something like that had happened to me at all. It was definitely the first time from someone I looked up to that was a pro skater… But it was not the first time someone’s said some racist shit to me, not by a long shot.
How did you feel about it all when Lev (Tanju) hit you up about putting it in that ad?
I don’t know… It’s different now I’m an adult, and not in that circle where anything could happen to me – I’d relish someone saying that to me now… But I was a kid at the time, so yeah it was a very different situation.
Backside tailslide, Los Angeles, 2004. Ph. Mike O’Meally
Well at least now the full story is out there… Is there anything else you‘d like to say about that or shall we move on to some of the slightly fonder memories you might have of your time out there? Like Mike O’Meally bitchslapping you into landing this backtail maybe? Ha ha.
Ha ha yeah let’s do that one, it’s good. So it was at that point when
Skateboarder
magazine was going and that one was always my favourite: Bartok (Oliver Barton), O’Meally, Bryan Gaberman had loads of photos in there every issue… It just had the best shit. And I guess O’Meally was one number in my little black book so he got the classic ‘hey man, you don’t know me but can I come skate?’ And he took me to this out ledge in Compton… And Cairo Foster was with him! I was so gassed on Cairo Foster at this point, I’d watched
The Reason
a million times and he had crazy pop, he went fast, always did simple tricks but he did them proper.
And so yeah it’s me and Cairo skating this out ledge and the drop off was kinda tall… I was back tailing that thing, to the end, but I kept getting there and kicking it away… And this was before digi so Mike O’Meally’s there burning through medium format Hasselblad film. On so many tries I could have done it but I was just being a bit of a pussy… And on one after I slid it perfectly to the end but kicked it away, O’Meally just bitchslapped me. Like he fully open hand slapped me on my face, really fucking hard… ‘Fucking do it cunt!’ like BAM ha ha. So I’m a bit like ‘aargh’ but also not forgetting that I was gassed to have O’Meally shooting me and I’m skating this thing with one of my favourite skaters. And yeah I think I was just so excited that the bitchslap fucking worked ha ha. I don’t know if it was the next try – but soon after I landed it. The bitchslap made me fucking do it.
At what point did you decide to quit Stereo then, and did it have anything to do with you wanting to move back to England?
So basically I always knew I wanted to skate for Palace way before I did. Obviously I’m so close to Chewy, Lucien, Lev, Brady and all the boys… And it could’ve happened a year or so sooner than it did, but I was hanging on with Stereo for some paychecks and royalties that were promised that never came… I knew I was going to do it but fuck they owed me a bunch of money and I was pretty skint so I held out for it.
What made you do it in the end then?
I guess at one point I realised it was never gonna happen, so just had to be like, ‘sorry boys, see you later.’ But at the same time all these guys had done so much for me, they let me live in their own homes and fully gave me a life over there. They’d gone far above and beyond, so no grudges held whatsoever.
Of course…
Looking back on your whole experience out there now, is there anything that turned out to be completely different to how you’d imagined it?
I mean one thing is how much trouble you can get in with the police for skating out there. Because even to this day I don’t think I’ve ever even heard of someone getting a fine for skating in London.
Over there things could very quickly get pretty scary. I remember once when we were skating downtown at night, the streets were completely empty so we were just cruising around, bombing through intersections… And at one point when we were on the pavement this police car screeched in right in front of me and I literally rolled over the bonnet and fell to the ground. Then he got out and he pushed my face down into the curb. Luckily all we got was a stern telling off and roughed up a little bit, but the whole time the officer had his hand hovering over the holster of his gun and yelling, ‘keep your hands where I can see them!’, it was scary.
And yeah like I said we didn’t get fined or arrested that time but it’s not uncommon for kids to do jail time because they couldn’t afford to pay tickets they got for skating. Because the way it worked then was that if you couldn’t pay by your court date, they’d issue a warrant out for your arrest. So if they’d then catch you again and see when they run your ID that you haven’t paid, then you’d pay it off in jail time. So all these like young kids – like 18, 19, 20, would be like: ‘ah yeah I did ten days for that skate ticket’. Imagine that! Doing ten days in jail with who knows… Loads of mentalists… Just for skating?!
(Interrupted by phone ringing, it’s Chewy.)
Hey mate! Oh Nice… Can I call you back in a little bit? I’m just finishing up this
Free
interview with Arthur. Actually can you think of any good stories from America that I could tell? Oh the Shiloh one!!! Ha ha ha that one’s gnarly, I don’t know…
(Conversation continues a little bit before they hang up and Benny’s just cracking up.)
Ok well obviously you’re going to have to tell me this Shiloh story now ha ha.
I dunno… It is pretty funny though.
Go oooon…
Alright… So this is when I lived in Long Beach and I used to hang out with John Bradford (the
Skateboarder
photographer) quite a lot. Our little crew was like Raymond Molinar, Nick Trapasso, Tony Silva and a few others and after our day of skating one time we decided to have a little BBQ at John Bradford’s house. He shared a balcony with his neighbours – these fixie riders – who were also having a BBQ evening, and Shiloh (Greathouse) was friends with them so he’s there with his bird… And he’s shitfaced ha ha. And he sees us and is like, ‘oh no way you guys are here what’s up?’ So we’re obviously like ‘hey Shiloh what’s up, cool!’ Just hanging out you know… But then at one point he turns to Bradford and is like: ‘you never fucking call me back! I got shit to film! I got shit to do!’ and his girlfriend was like ‘yeah! Shiloh’s got tons of tricks he wants to shoot, why don’t you ever call him back?!’ ha ha. And then – he was pretty mashup – he just starts going around the room ranting at us all like, ‘Trapasso you skate good but you dress like a little bitch. And Raymond you can skate ledges good but you’re a fuckin’ hipster with all your stupid cameras! I’m an innovator, I made up all this shit!’ ha ha. And then he turns to me and starts going, ‘Benny you tell them: who’s your favourite black skater from back in the day? WHO?!’
So I’m like, ‘Uh… Keenan? Drake Jones? Uh… Kareem’
‘Yeah yeah those guys are alright, those guys are alright… But…’ And then it escalated a little bit…
What, like, was he actually kicking off ha ha?
Ha ha well yeah kind of… We ended up having to trick him into thinking he’d called himself a taxi to get rid of him.
Ollie, San Francisco, 2003. Ph. Skin Phillips
Don’t meet your heroes, the slightly funnier edition.
Yeah ha ha. He had a point though! He was an innovator! Just needed to work on the delivery of that a bit, ha ha.
I guess that’s another thing that I had no idea about, which kind of ties in to why Ethan probably thought he could say what he said to me. Skateboarding’s a big deal over there. I remember once Nike had the whole side of a huge building painted of a mural of P-Rod doing a kickflip right in downtown, that kind of thing would never happen in England, mental! But yeah, they’re like Rock Stars out there you know? And I guess some of them act like it…
Years and years of everyone around you constantly telling you you’re the shit does tend to make some people think they’re untouchable.
But then also not everyone had egos like that you know? A lot of dudes would be completely normal, just like the nicest guys. It’s just a few where you could tell it was like ‘don’t even make eye contact with me ‘cause I’m the fucking shit!’ ha ha. I guess it’s because some people really do freak out when they see them. Some pros over there are just really famous.
Have you got any stories or examples of famous dudes being really safe/down to earth?
I don’t know, (Danny) Montoya and Rob G (Gonzalez) were always legends… I guess I was blown away by how nice Guy Mariano was. It’s hard to think of a specific example but a lot of people definitely went out of their way to make me feel good and comfortable when they could tell I was just a bit of a nervous kid…
Actually I do have a good one!
Sick!
It’s about Luypa Sin. It didn’t happen in America but to me he was an ‘American Pro’ because he was in
411VM
, if you know what I mean?
Ha ha fuck it go on then.
This would have been a bit before I went… And I think Lev or someone had just shown me a
411
, with Luypa, Stephane Larance and loads of French dudes. I remember thinking Luypa was so steezy… He instantly became one of my favourites.
So basically Luypa came to London on one of those Emerica Wild In The Streets comps where you hit a bunch of different street spots and then it ended at Playstation Skatepark, and he won the whole thing. This was when I was a full on grommet, like I probably had an afro coming out of a visor or something lol…. And I saw him kickflip the shit out of that SOAS gap where Knox does the gap to back lip! Anyway that day I did this tre flip out of the kicker over the oil drum and Luypa, after he got given his cash envelope, came up to me and was like ‘yeah man, that tre flip was so good, here you go’ and handed me £60! He absolutely did not have to, I’d never met him or spoken to him, I’d literally just seen him skate that day, that’s it. Keeping in mind that I was sleeping on the floor at the Brixton palace or somewhere, totally skint… So that was my train back to the Forest sorted, my meals for a few days, maybe a few beers… I just couldn’t believe it. Like, ‘what are you…? Really?! Thank you, thank you, thank you. ’ He just fully went out of his way to be the nicest guy ever and really didn’t have to.
Aw man hearing that makes me so happy. And it’s hardly like he would have been earning loads as a ‘Euro’ pro skater back in the day either, what an absolute legend.
I love how we’ve somehow managed to finish on something that has nothing to do with your time in LA ha ha. I guess you choosing that example in a way says something about it all though…
Yeah what an absolute legend! Ha ha, some good life lessons in the right way to behave and the wrong one in all this. If I can get close to that level, help people out and give whenever I can then I’m happy.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 29, 2020
Deeli Interview
Aleksi Fräki, ollie, Rovaniemi, 2003.
I first met Deeli in 2006 I believe… I hadn’t yet moved to London but I was visiting for the summer. Deeli was mostly quiet, but had a great smile, the kind that goes ear to ear. I didn’t know he was a famous Finnish photographer or a Finnish skateboard champion. The former I found out quickly when I saw my first
Kingpin
magazine; the latter I didn’t find out until last week when researching for this interview. I didn’t get to know Deeli that well back then because by the time I moved to London in 2007, he left a year later to move back to Helsinki. I did see him a bit at skate exhibitions, we would have little chats and I would marvel at his mangled Chocolate hat, but it wasn’t until having this one-hour conversation last week with the man, also known as Tuukka Kaila, that I feel like I got to truly know the guy. You might recognise some of Deeli’s photos in this article from years past; they’re quite timeless. So read on for Deeli’s tales from yesteryear, including how he got started, why he stopped skate photography and what he’s up to now.
All photography by Tuuka ‘Deeli’ Kalia
Interview by Will Harmon
How did you get into skate photography and photography in general?
I was studying printmaking, because I wanted to become an artist. And at the college where I was at the time there was a photography department that was a lot more interesting than the printmaking department so that’s how I got into photography. And skate photography… Well I had been taking pictures of my friends, obviously like everybody does, in high school and when I was skating around, but I didn’t really get serious about it until I was already almost through college studying art and then my friend Timo Hyppönen wanted to start a magazine in Helsinki. So he asked me to help him.
Sami Miettinen, switch frontside heelflip, Vantaa, 2010
Is that
Numero
(magazine) you’re referring to?
Yeah. So I got involved with that. It was Timo’s idea and so we sort of started the magazine and through that I started to take more pictures of skateboarding. It was kind of an accident; I didn’t really plan it. I didn’t think it would carry on for very long…
And Simo (Mäkelä) told me you were a Finnish skateboard champion in the nineties. Is this true?
Uh yeah, well… Yeah. (Laughs) At one point I guess…
That’s sick. So you had been skating for a quite a while before getting into skate photography?
Yeah I started skating in the mid-eighties, when I was ten or 11, something like that. I guess I was kind of serious about it at some point and then I had a time where I didn’t skate as much. But then getting into the photography side and the magazine… That kind of kept me going for a lot longer than I might have done otherwise.
Ok so let’s go back to
Numero
. Was this the time where you felt you really learned skate photography?
Yeah well I knew quite a lot about photography from my studies, but nothing about skate photography. I really got into it with no skate photography skills at all, zero, and so I just asked friends who were already doing it. I was also ploughing through skate magazines with a loupe just trying to figure out how everything worked.
When was this?
This was ’98 I think. That’s when the first issue of the magazine came out.
Dallas Rockvam, ollie, Helsinki, 2011.
So did you have any skate photographer mentors there in Finland?
Yeah there were people, I don’t know about famous but… Antton (Miettinen) started out a little before me back then, so there were a few people doing it, but there was no outlet really and I think that’s why my friends started the magazine really… They knew a lot of people were doing this (shooting skate photos), but there was no forum or outlet for it then.
Also Wig Worland helped me. I’ve actually asked him specific questions like, ‘how do you do that? What causes this? How do I do this?’ and he’s helped me a lot. So mainly Antton and Wig, but also Bartok’s (Oliver Barton) photography just by following that at the time when I was learning… So those three people have been my major influences.
When I first was learning skateboarding photography I would try to imitate the people I looked up to. And it took a while to somehow get my photos to look like how I thought those people’s photos looked and be happy with that. And then the next step was finding something that was uniquely mine. At the beginning I always felt like skate photography was overpoweringly similar… A lot of people I thought were doing similar things and then only when I started learning and getting more into it myself I started noticing the nuances that make people’s photos like Antton’s, Wig’s and Bartok’s photos unique. And that kind of brought the realisation that, ‘ok if those guys can have a unique voice within that, then why not me? Maybe I can do something of my own?’
Brian Lotti, Malaga, 2007.
Well I’m sure all that practice and experience working at
Numero
for years must have given you that voice. How did this transition into eventually working for
Kingpin
?
So that took a while. I started working for
Kingpin
in 2004. So towards the end of my time working at
Numero
… It was just the financial trouble of it. We constantly had to ask people for favours: ‘can you do that? Oh and I can’t pay you…’ and that was just really getting frustrating and I also felt that I had invested all this time and money into expensive equipment and I felt like ‘I know how to do this now and I really enjoy doing it,’ so my options are that I’m going to give it up and learn something else or I’m going to really try to get paid for what I do. It seemed obvious to me that it wasn’t going to happen if I stayed in Finland. There just wasn’t any money to support me in doing this… I don’t want to sound greedy, but at some point you just need to get paid for what you do, because otherwise you can’t do it. You can’t invest all that time… So I had contributed to
Kingpin
in a few issues already and I was working with a few brands in Europe so then I basically just asked Niall (Neeson, former editor of
Kingpin
): do you have a job for me? And he replied that timing was quite good and there might actually be a job. And then he just hired me basically.
Kristoffer Hallgren, frontside kickflip, Linz, 2011.
And then so you moved to London…
Yep. They bought me a plane ticket and put me up in a hotel for two weeks until I found a place to live.
A lot of the Finnish skaters I talked to (Simo Mäkelä, Samu Karvonen, Eniz Fazliov) credit you with being the one person to get their pictures out there beyond just the Finnish mags and for the rest of the world to see. And in turn this exposure really helped their careers. What do you think about that?
It’s amazing to hear if they are indeed saying that, but I always thought that obviously the photographer needed the skaters way more than the skaters needed the photographer. If there weren’t people there to skate and be willing to take me along, do stuff, and let me take photos of it then I’d be nothing in that sort of scene. And it goes both ways: I got the chance to go somewhere and see what other people were doing, which gave me a little more perspective about what the guys back in Finland were doing. It made me realise the talent that they really had in comparison to what else I was seeing around Europe. So I don’t know, I felt like I was in a good position to say: ‘look at these guys; they’re doing this and it’s pretty amazing isn’t it!’
Simo Mäkelä, gap to backside nosegrind pop-out, Helsinki, 2009.
And so were you able to go back to Helsinki and shoot with these guys once you were at
Kingpin
or did they often come over here to London?
For the first year or two I don’t think I came back to Finland at all. Plus the way the job was structured, it was a major let down at first… To begin with I was needed in the office; I wasn’t needed as a photographer, but then after the first year photography became my main thing there. At first I was just helping with articles, photo editing, etc.
So after a year you finally got to shoot again…
Yeah and then it became a travelling job.
What were some of your favourite travels?
Russia with the Control dudes and later with Element and again with Kenny Reed. There’s something magical about the place for sure. Then there were several low budget raids on Estonia and the rest of the Baltics, Tent Shitty camping trips through Scandinavian city centres with Perus, Sweet and Sk8Mafia, the DIY craze pouring concrete around Europe with whoever was there. Loved the one in Riga, organised and hosted by Madars (Apse) and his friends.
Are there any particular people that you really enjoyed shooting with?
Simo and Eniz… And Danny Wainwright actually, he was amazing to shoot with. It’s funny because a lot of the people that were in London at the time and skating all the time, I really didn’t get to shoot that much with. Mostly when I was in London I would go to the office and I’d have to be there to take care of stuff. For me to be able to be out on the street and go and shoot photos I would have to leave London. I would have to escape the grip of the office. So thinking about it now, it seems weird that I was there for four, almost five years and then a lot of those (London) guys that were there at the time I didn’t even really shoot anything with. I really liked shooting with some of the Swedish guys: Mika Edin, Love Eneroth… It’s kind of hard to think of names right now whereas I’m sure there are loads of people I could mention. Maybe it doesn’t matter…
Mika Edin, backside lipslide, Stockholm, 2010.
It’s all good…
Also there was a bunch of people I shot when I didn’t really know what I was doing. When I was just starting out as a skate photographer there were these skaters that were my age, who were really, really good… They were on top of their game and they would do stuff in front of my camera and I would just fuck it up.
Is this the
Control Skateboards crew
?
Yeah, exactly: Tatu, Toma, Peke, Valtteri, Jassu… I had the best times with them, learning how to take photos. We shot so many things. They were at the top of their skating and I was just beginning with skate photography so I was fucking up the photos because I didn’t know what I was doing. I mean I can see how it’s gonna look through my lens looking at it happening, but then I would get the photo back (film days) and it’s just rubbish. They would give me the opportunity to learn how to take the photos and then I could really not give that much back. My level of photography was nothing compared to their level of skating.
M15, Ashdod, Israel, 2011.
Don’t be so hard on yourself; you were just starting out.
It’s not like I feel bad about it… Just people’s careers are on different trajectories. But basically I really enjoyed shooting with those guys but I have nothing to show for it now.
Maybe this is a tough question, but do you have certain skate photos that you’ve shot that are your favourite?
There are some, but I guess this is where it gets a little more personal. Maybe there’s a lucky shot where it’s someone that I don’t even know, but I happened to be there and they do something and stars just align and it becomes one of my favourite things I’ve ever shot. But then I might not have any personal relationship to the person… There are just different reasons as to why I like certain photos; some are the person I shot with, some are that the trick is just amazing, the place is just amazing or something later happened to that person and that makes it special. But it’s very rare that all of these things would combine into one single photo.
Danny Wainwright, ollie, Bristol, 2006.
I see… That makes sense.
For example one of my favourite photos I’ve shot is this ollie of (Danny) Wainwright. It’s around Bristol and he’s going over a corner, sort of like a hip. There are not that many things that are special about the photo in terms of the situation… I was there for a weekend or a couple of days and Wainwright, the professional that he is, had this whole list of things that he wanted to go check out. So we were in someone’s car, maybe Tidy Mike’s, and we were going around to all these spots and he had a trick planned at all these spots he wanted to try, which is something that was pretty rare back then, to have a skater be that organised. He was at a point where he just wanted to get stuff done and feel good about himself having done stuff and somehow everything just seemed to go well and clicked. And then later on, if I think of the photo, the trick is obviously nothing for him, but then at the same time it’s like what he’s known for: it’s an ollie. Also I didn’t know him that well; that was probably the second time I’d ever shot with him. I wouldn’t say that we were good friends at the time yet, but it’s just a weird mix of a lot of things kind of combining in a single photo that doesn’t happen maybe that often. I like the way the photo looks, I like the trick, I really like the guy and I have good memories of that day. It’s the best you could hope for I suppose.
Adrien Bulard & Youness Amrani, Berlin, 2010.
Sick. It’s good to have those memories…
Also regarding a favourite photo or memory I wanted to talk about one particular trip I did with Simo… I hadn’t shot that much with him at the time yet, but he was at a point in his skating where he was blowing up. He could do anything and he could go on forever. He would just jump down stuff for days and not get hurt; he would just enjoy it. So we went to Vienna and there were just three days in a row where he would hammer out things, the most amazing tricks, one after another… It’s also one of those things for a photographer that’s also quite rare, that you get to witness that – things just kept happening.  Each spot we’d go to he’d go: ‘oh maybe I’ll try this’ and he just nails it. Next spot: ‘maybe I’ll try that’ and nails it again. Out of that trip I still have some photos that I look back on and think: I really enjoyed the trip, I got to know Simo quite well so I made a good friend. Also when I look back at the photos they’re good tricks and I think I’d achieved something photographically as well.
And Eniz, he’s always been there for me. If ever I’d ask if he had anything he wanted to shoot or if he wanted to go out, he’d be the most accommodating skater ever. When I moved back to Helsinki from London and I had a small child, I still had to work office hours for
Kingpin
, but Eniz could wait all day and shoot a photo after my work if that’s what I needed. I feel like that was pretty rare for that era in skateboarding.
Also I need to mention the Perus Crew. After I had shot a lot with Simo and Eniz and those guys, I started working more with the Perus guys and they were on a really good roll at the time. I mean they had a completely different way of working compared to Eniz… None of the scheduling and none of the working on the clock… You could never plan anything like, ‘let’s do that at that time’ or that day even or… It would be quite random to be honest, but they are really genuine guys and some of the photos that I look back on now and that I like the most are of those guys.
Eniz Fazliov, frontside noseslide, Helsinki, 2009.
So at what point did you get out of skate photography and what led to this?
There was a combination of things… I moved back to Helsinki from London in 2008 and then I stopped working for
Kingpin
in 2012. In that time period I was getting anxious about having something else lined up. Basically it was hard for me to be a dad and a husband with being out all the time. This was a major part of it. And then for a while the people I was working with kept getting younger and younger and obviously I wasn’t. So there was kind of this thing like, ‘is skateboarding going to be there for me? Is it going to continue to be there for me?’ And I wondered if this was something that I could keep doing as long as I want or if there would be a moment in time when I would just be booted out. Like if I can’t make a living off of it, then what would I do then? I had nothing lined up.
Luy-Pa Sin, ollie, Hong Kong, 2006.
I see…
But the funny thing is: that feeling passed. There was this moment where I remember when I was thinking about it the most, and this has to do with Finland as well, I was here and everything else (the industry) seemed like far away. I kind of had to be self-sufficient and I would have to rely on myself and convince myself that this was a legit thing to be doing – so that I could give myself credit for doing something worthwhile… That takes a lot of belief in yourself, and that is not always easy, especially in the winter in Finland. Many months of the year here you can’t shoot photos of skateboarding, so then I would have a lot of time on my hands and no money at all and I would constantly think, ‘what am I doing?’ But that all passed… And a lot of credit for that goes to Perus dudes. I really started enjoying it again thanks to those guys. So at the end in 2012 when I moved on to other things I was really enjoying this so much. I was really enjoying the life and skate photography, but then why I had to eventually stop was for family reasons. I had to save my marriage so I had to get out of it… Turns out I was a day late and a dollar short… The marriage wasn’t saved. I think the two just weren’t compatible.
Simo Mäkelä, Berlin, 2010.
So after
Kingpin
and stepping away from skate photography, what did you do next?
Well to begin with I got into photography through art, and around the time of
Numero
, art was equally important to me. Art took a backseat when I was putting all my effort into skate photography, so in 2012 I started to get back into art, or I started giving it more time and attention. After a stint shooting photos for commercial magazines and getting into graphic design I decided I wanted to get into publishing more so I kind of bluffed my way into a publishing job. There I managed to teach myself about printing techniques, how books are made, materials and how the publishing industry works. So I did that for a few years and then quit to focus on my art. Then I worked there again and left, again, to concentrate on art. In between all that I started a publishing imprint with another artist. So I’m doing that now, publishing artists’ books and doing exhibitions basically.
Nice. And oh yeah, I wanted to ask you about how in 2016 you sent us a few photos of Eniz, which we used in his interview in
Free
Issue 8. I want to know what it was like shooting skateboarding again since it ceased being your profession?
That’s great that you asked that; it was such a funny experience. I hadn’t shot any skate photos for like three to four years really, like none. And that day I was at this DIY park that I was actively involved in in the beginning…
Danijel Stankovic, frontside heelflip, Berlin, 2010.
Suvilahti?
Yes. I was still spending a lot of time there and that place has been a lifesaver for me in many ways… But anyways I was skating there a lot and that day I happened to have a camera with me in the park, but I kind of wanted to go skate street. So I called up Eniz not thinking at all that we’d shoot any photos. So Eniz was out skating street with friends so I went skating with them and immediately it just kicked off. I shot three photos of Eniz that day and everything was amazing, all the tricks that he did; it was just like, bang bang bang! As mentioned I hadn’t shot any photos of skating before that for many years and those are the last photos of skateboarding I’ve shot since. Who knows those may be the last photos. It was funny as well because I had such a good day and I was so into it. I was enjoying it so much and Eniz was almost like apologetic… He was like, ‘oh sorry I made you work now. I didn’t mean to; I know you just called to go skate and then here I am asking you to take photos.’ It felt so amazing… He’s a good friend of mine but I don’t see him that often, but the trust was there, intact. I happened to be there and he wanted to do stuff and it just clicked and we did it.
Well that’s just wonderful.
It was. But I always feel like being a skate photographer that makes a career shooting skateboarding, you can’t take things for granted. You can’t expect people to do things for you. Towards the end of it when I had to tell people ‘oh I can’t be there now, can you go on Wednesday?’ How lame is that? If somebody is really hyped to do something right there and then and they’re considerate enough to give me a call like, ‘I’m gonna do this now, can you be here?’ and I would have to say ‘no, I can’t be there. Can you do it another time?’ I really feel shitty about doing that. And I felt like if I’m doing that too often then maybe it just means I shouldn’t be doing this anymore. You can’t expect people to do stuff for you when it suits you. So that day with Eniz where I got three photos I kind of felt lucky that that happened. I got one more taste of it. I really don’t want to call people up and say: ‘Hey do you want to do something? I haven’t shot any photos in four years…’
Jerome Campbell, Miami, 2007.
Well maybe after this comes out people might hit you up again…
I’m lucky that I had what I had and I really appreciate the time that I had, but I think also that was my time. I’m sort of nostalgic about it, but I don’t miss it. I really enjoy what I’m doing now… I don’t know, it was a part of my life and I’m living a different part of my life now.
Do you still follow skate photography and what goes on now?
Zero, not at all. Well I follow Sam (Ashley) on Instagram, that’s basically my dose of skate photography.
OK about to wrap this up, anything else you’d like to add?
This might sound lame or stupid or whatever, but I’m just generally so grateful to the people that worked with me; I guess that is such a huge gift that I got from being involved. And I do feel like I invested 15 years of my life into doing that, but I would always feel that I got so much out of it. It’s nice to hear people like Simo and Eniz would say that they felt like I had a part to play in what happened with their skateboarding and all that. I guess that’s like the cherry on top.
OK so the last question is, and the people want to know this… Do you still have the Chocolate hat?
I do have it yeah. I should have worn it for this (Skype), but it’s quite fragile. I have a feeling if I wear it and I slam it’ll just disintegrate. It’s still the best design of any hat that I’ve ever had. It matches my head perfectly.
Deeli and his Chocolate hat, 2020. Ph. Kyllikki

================================================================================

BY admin  •  March 28, 2023
CPTMAFIA – BOUDEM CLIPS
Familia Grande Complicada (by Mike Mag)
It is not a brand. Neither is it a company. We don’t actually make anything (aside from skate videos). CPTMAFIA is a family. A tight-knit crew of street cats from Brazil with a long story, a deep bond, shared passions and drives, and a lot of talent. That talent being the ability to make something out of nothing. Flying higher than most with fewer resources than most. Being the best English speaker of the crew I was asked to help introduce the gang, tell its story past and present, and attempt to put into words the family’s contagious energy.
All photography by Allan Carvalho.
Born in the outskirts of São Paulo (the ABC district), the mafia’s roots began like many others: just a group of kids trying to get to the city centre to skate. The only way is by taking the CPTM train line, but we don’t have money, and train security is tight. Using a series of creative tactics the boys quickly developed ways to jump the CPTM train every try. With their quick wits and the famous Brazilian ‘little way’ (O Jeitinho) they were able to regularly get to the city center to skate, helping one another jump the trains despite the security. Up until this point there was no CPTMAFIA, just a group of local skate rats constantly finesseing their way around the city to skate.
Leo Bodelazzi, switch noseslide.
In order to tell the rest of the story, I must tell the story of the OG big homie ‘Big Key’ (Chavão). Big Key was an older local skater, he knew things, he lived a lot. He saw that this group of punks had the potential to really be something special but lacked the knowledge necessary to get there. Being the Big Key that he was, he passed on an abundance of knowledge to the boys, putting them onto things like literature, cinema, street skating, and skate videos. Today Big Key is serving a sentence in a Brazilian prison. Thankfully he was able to open up many doors for the crew while he was around. He was the one who suggested this group of kids that are always together cherish their bond, form a tight crew, buy a camera, hit the streets, and make some videos.
Taking Big Key’s advice, the youngest member of the crew at the time, Matheus Lima, did some research and suggested the Sony TRV900. The initial CPTMAFIA crew (Leo Bodelazzi, Yuri Amaro, Anderson Gomes, Giovanni Franzo, Matheus Lima, Raphael Soares, Raphael Silva, JP Rocha and resident photographer Allan Carvalho) got together and pitched in with what little they had to score a beat up but working TRV900 and took to the streets to film some clips. But this camera soon after got stolen on a bus ride and all was lost.
Leonardo Adrian, frontside 5-0.
About a year went by until the crew was able to come up on another Sony TRV900. This one was good, and they got a baby death lens to go with it. Filming and skate trips resumed, making connections in other cities such as Maringá (Bruno Prado, Leonardo Adrian, Felipe Munhoz, Cristofer Da Silva) Riberão Preto (Lucas Marques, MKD Skateshop) and Curitiba (Leonardo Bibiano). As the connections grew the family did as well. The trips kept coming and the tapes kept rolling but with no intention or even any idea of how to make a skate video. After aimlessly filling over 100 tapes of footage something had to be done. Thus the first CPTMAFIA video was born:
Cadê o Pão
. The name being a reference to CPTMAFIA member Wellington Oliveira aka Pão, and his ability to always mysteriously disappear on the session.
Wellington Oliveira, frontside 50-50.
As things grew bigger, the world grew smaller. About half of the crew managed to scrape up some funds together to take a trip to Barcelona. 90 days of using that famous Brazilian ‘little way’ to get the most out of their visit. The result is proudly demonstrated in the
¿Y HOY?
video that they were able to come home with. We gained a new family member out of this one too, Akira Utida.
Upon returning to Brazil the world was swept by the Covid pandemic and life was stopped for a while. But eventually, the skating continued and the tapes were rolling again. The crew stayed busy, everyone doing their own thing, but always all together. In this time a lot of great solo parts and projects came out from the individual CPTMAFIA members. We also gained some new members; Leo Favaro, Mike Mag, Hendrik Santos and Felipe Rocha.
Leo Favaro, boardslide to fakie.
This new video is the result of these two odd years during the pandemic. The product of many patchy filming sessions and get-togethers in the ABC district (the mafia’s birthplace).
The tapes kept piling up with no way to capture the footage as no one had a working computer during these times. Anytime we could find someone with a working computer we would ask to use it to try to capture some tapes or edit a little bit of the video. Across 7-8 computers in three continents we were able to use that famous ‘little way’ to get this video finished. Thank you to everyone who helped us through this messy process. This video was edited by Lucas Marques with the democratic input of the whole troop and we are all very proud to present it.
In Brazil everything is five times harder. Making a buck is five times harder and it will be worth five times less when you get it. Skate products from the outside, such as American and European brands, rarely make it over here and if they do they will be five times as expensive. The spots and skate parks are five times rougher and five times as sparse. To ‘make it’ in skating or even get a decent sponsor is five times as unlikely. Faced with this harsh reality of challenges we have to pour five times more of our hearts and souls into what we do. But the reward of all the hard work is five times sweeter.
Matheus Lima, slappy crooked grind.
This video is a testament to our shared bond, passion, and challenges. Making five times more with five times less. We don’t have the latest and greatest video camera gear or equipment. We don’t have one singled out proper filmer. What we have is each other. Everyone films everyone, passing the camera around like a spliff, creating our signature loose filming style. Everyone gives input on the soundtracks and edits. Everything is shared, and everything is together. We all cheer each other on and celebrate each others’ individual goals.
Through this we have been able to make some waves outside of the parallel universe that is Brazil; expanding our world into new territories and making new friendships and connections worldwide. A lot of the crew has come a long way in their individual stories and will continue to fly as high as possible with all of our unwavering support. As I write all this from a small smokey room in Santo André with a chunk of the crew hovering over my shoulder and another bunch on FaceTime giving input, we are actively setting up to have our biggest video premiere to date on this very night. Most of us are here together but others can’t make it because they are off on their own conquests. But forever and always our hearts are in this together all for the love of skateboarding. É nos! (It’s us!)
Anderson Gomes, frontside crooked grind.
During these in-between times here is some of the cool stuff the CPTMAFIA has been up to…
Leo Favaro
dropped several video parts including
Sentimento Puro
,
OBRIGADO MKD
, and
Spiritualized
, as well as making regular appearances in other videos and racking up stamps in his passport.
Lucas Marques
has been busy in the streets on both sides of the camera, having filmed and edited
Contents
as well as giving us flowy parts like this one for
Free
and
October Symphony
.
Raphael Soares
continues to be the most handsome of the group and not too long ago dropped his part
Diverta Se
.
Giovana Dias
makes her debut appearance in our newest video, the first female member of the crew and one of the most G as well.
Leo Bodelazzi
filmed a video part with legend Anthony Claravall last year,
Leozinho
, that I think really blew a lot of minds. He’s in California right now so he is going to miss our premiere. But we know he’s somewhere in the streets having fun, and he’s been skating with some of the Crailtap camp as well. Live it up Leo!
Hendrik Santos
is one of our newest members and easily the most stylish. You’ll know who
we’re talking about. He makes his debut in our new video and has another video part of his
own about to come out.
Matheus Lima
a day one member and one of the youngest dropped
Lilás
last year and also teamed up with our lovable panda bear
Leonardo Bibiano
to give us
Bobabu
.
Bruno Rocha’s full length video
Labirinto
documents some of the crew’s time spent in Europe and gave us and gave us a shared part by our
Bruno Prado and Lucas Marques
, this amazing
Akira Utida
part, as well as a CPTMAFIA section with Anderson Gomes and the rest of the crew that visited Europe in these times.
Leonardo Beazotto
regularly produces videos with the crew like last year’s
Joabless
amongst many others.
Leonardo Adrian
, the youngest of the group is growing strong as displayed in his
Retta
part from last year, and keeps getting better every day. Keep an eye on him.
Mike Mag
often leaves his beaches of Rio de Janeiro behind to adventure around the world and always comes back with a new video part in his pocket featuring appearances from the crew like in
The Saudade Express
and
Own Little World
.
Yuri Amaro
,
Wellington Oliveira
,
Felipe Munhoz
and the rest of the family make regular appearances in some of our other montages and videos like
Praça Brasil
,
CINCO
,
and even this
Day in the Life
video from Jenkem.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 2, 2021
The American Dream (part 2 of 6): Jesus Fernandez
The American Dream
is a series of six interviews with European pros, looking back at their experiences of moving to California to pursue skateboarding careers.
Stamina ad, switch kickflip, Los Angeles, 1999. Ph. Seu Trinh.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
How old were you when you decided to move to California and what were some of the reasons you decided to give it a shot?
Jesus Fernandez: I was 21. I’d been there a couple times before but it had been for quick vacations… My brother Alfonso was going with Dani (Lebron) so it felt like a good idea. I guess going together made it feel a bit less scary. Moving over there on your own would be kind of nuts.
What were the reasons… I think my age was a big factor actually. Like we had nice families and good lives and stuff in Spain but at that point we felt like we didn’t really have that much to lose, if you know what I mean? Like we weren’t good at school and we didn’t have jobs or anything… We were young and all we cared about was skating and having fun, and that seemed like a lot of fun.
Did you have a lot of money saved up for when you’d be out there?
Oh no ha ha. We had a little bit but it ran out way too soon. I think most skaters, especially at that age, are the same you know? We didn’t want to work, all we’d do is skate, but if it were to save money for something like this, like if we had a proper goal, then we would work. Or at least a little bit ha ha.
We were lucky too because in the beginning we were always able to stay with people we’d know from Spain, often with rich families ha ha. That’s why at first it just felt like a very long holiday. Too long even sometimes ha ha, like I stayed the three months but then my brother just stayed illegally!
Why did he choose to stay?
I don’t know! I still ask myself that ha ha. We’re brothers, almost twins (there’s just one year between us) but we’re very different. I mean I must have spent so much money going back and forth all those years but I don’t know… I liked it there but not enough to do what he did and not be able to come back for years. I liked being in Spain as well. Plus Lebron would go back and forth with me. It’s hard to remember some of this stuff though… Like how did I manage to get the money to do all those trips? I honestly have no idea ha ha, but I guess we made it work somehow.
But you guys ended up getting flats out there right? How did you manage that then?
I think we got sponsored almost as soon as we tried to move there, like after only maybe two months we got on Neighborhood. We weren’t all there all the time but we’d pay every month. But we’d always have super, super cheap places, and as I said my brother just stayed out there the whole time so it worked.
You had a spot by USC right?
Oh yeah that one was perfect… As soon as we moved there we started skating so much better. Like how we were back in Spain. I think it’s because we could do it all day so our technique got way better. Before that I remember sometimes thinking, ‘how do they do it here with all that driving?’ There we were, literally living three blocks away from the spot, and suddenly we had that thing of being able to just go without calling anyone and we’d know who would be there every day. We became really good friends with all the locals… Not necessarily the sponsored guys or the pros or whatever, just the people that would be there all the time. And lots of them spoke Spanish too!
I remember on some days I’d go with Dani and my brother in the morning, then they’d go home and do other things or whatever and I’d still be there at 10 at night ha ha. Just me and this guy Marvin who was deaf… He was always there, it was sick. Can’t imagine skating for that long now ha ha.
How long did you have that place for?
Two to three years maybe? And honestly on most of the days during that period we were at those USC ledges. Unless we made plans with Chico (Brenes) or something, we’d be there from the morning, sat on the block with a Starbucks coffee ha ha.
How much did you guys pay for rent?
I think we only paid $500 for the whole place, with three rooms. Because it was pretty ghetto you know? Like directly opposite to us was the projects where there’d be shootings, gangs and stuff, but at the same time you had the University there, which was really fancy, so it was a good mix. I remember we had the Stamina boxes as a table ha ha.
Sounds about right ha ha.
It wasn’t all destroyed or dirty or anything though you know? Like it wasn’t a big party house with drugs, one guy throwing up in a corner or something… We were just living cheap.
Frontside noseslide, USC ledges, Los Angeles, 2003. Ph. Theo Hand
Do you remember how much the Neighborhood checks were for? Because sure, a $500 split between three people is super cheap, but weren’t they your only sponsor when you got there?
Yeah. It was just under $1000 I think…
Which is way more than what board most board brands pay now!
Yeah! But it was really different then, there weren’t as many pros or companies. Now it’s insane.
How come the whole Neighborhood thing came to an end? It seemed like you guys had a really good thing going there.
Basically we made a video (La La Land), which was really well received, but for us it was just the beginning and we wanted to do more, film another video, keep things going you know? But they were just happy with that! It was weird, like the filmers didn’t really want to film anymore, plus sometimes we wouldn’t get boards… This was around when I met Chico, who then introduced me to Rick (Howard) and they were basically like, ‘if you ever need boards whatever, hit us up’. Just to help out you know? Actually who am I kidding ha ha, it was our fault. I think deep down we always knew we wanted to skate for Girl. I mean World was sick back then too but Girl and Chocolate were my favourites. Also we just wanted to skate with those guys and be around them you know? And every time I’d skate with Rick or Carroll or Chico, I could feel I’d be skating better. And it wasn’t like, ‘I want to show them what I can do or anything’ ha ha, but just the fact that they’d be there I’d feel a little bit of pressure – and maybe I’d be a bit scared when I’d warm up – but it would motivate me.
I’m sure you probably had a certain idea in your head of what living out there might be like, what would you say were some of your biggest misconceptions about the place?
It’s hard to say, it was all so different to what we’d imagined… That’s what made it so fun!
For instance the spots: I guess from seeing them so much in videos I’d created this crazy image of them in my head. Like the courthouse, I was convinced it was in the middle of this huge park with a big fence around it and all this stuff, which I’d just completely imagined! It’s just this little bit between two blocks. And my first impression of spots was often ‘wow… This is actually really shitty’ ha ha. Like so many of their ledges were really chunky you know?
Ha ha…
Not all of them though. Like you know the old Santa Monica spot? The labyrinth one with all the graffiti?
The Venice Pit?
Yeah that one was actually really good. Obviously it was old and kind of round because you could tell it had been skated for years. But the sound… Grrrrrrrrrrr.
That’s the best thing about old plazas… Just like Hotel De Ville.
EXACTLY. The grind sounds at places like that are so good…
But coming back to your question, another thing that was very different to what I imagined is how all the pros were out there. Like I thought that if I got to see Koston at a spot one day, there was no way I’d get to talk to him. But he was the nicest guy! All the pros were! Every time we’d skate the same spot as them we’d actually skate it together if you know what I mean? Like ‘come on, let’s see who can do this first’ kind of thing. So often I’d find myself wondering ‘wait, is it really the same guy? It can’t be!’ I had that with Tony Ferguson I remember… But yeah so many of the guys I really admired were just so friendly. I really didn’t expect that.
I bet being based by USC probably really helped connect you with people.
Yeah definitely. And before being there the first few days of every trip would feel a little weird… Just because in Spain you’re always bumping into people everywhere and we wouldn’t have that. Like when you just go down to MACBA and know people will be there: I like that spontaneous feeling. But then of course you’d get used to not having it, you’d get used to everything. Even all the driving… And I’d love looking out the window on the sand gaps and seeing all the long palm trees… That was enough to make me happy. Ah and there would be that time in the afternoon when the sun goes down, the light is all orange and it would be the perfect temperature… And the wax would be juuuust right. I loved that; I miss it.
I guess even before the USC place we would just always drive to places like that where you could really skate and hang out all day you know? We went to Lockwood a lot.
Neighborhood ad, fakie crooks, Los Angeles, 1999. Ph. Seu Trinh
Did you ever feel out of your depth out there? As in being so far away from home, going around all these places you didn’t really know… Like there have always been stories of sketchy shit going down at Lockwood for example.
Yeah I’ve heard rumours of people getting their cameras stolen and stuff… But I don’t know, maybe it’s because we didn’t really know about anything or any of the places that we weren’t really scared? Or maybe we were just really lucky? I do remember thinking it was really good that we spoke Spanish though ha ha. Like the few times we did have young guys come up to us like that and it felt like it might be a bit sketchy, you know like saying ‘you, where are you from blah blah’ we’d just be like ‘Que? Que dices?’ and they be like ‘okaaaaay, de Espana!’ And chat to us and be cool, sometimes they’d even come back with beers ha ha. Like, ‘here, for my Spanish friends!’ ha ha.
Honestly thinking about it again all now, we really had the best imaginable time out there.
Your first holiday to LA set the bar pretty high for you too ha ha! Can you tell us a bit about that trip?
Yeah. I think I was about 16 and I went for a month with Enrique Lorenzo and our shop sponsor, and we stayed at Lance Mountain’s house.
How did that come about?
Just because Francisco who had the shop was good friends with Lance I guess.
And by ‘Lance Mountain’s house’ you mean the
Mountain Manor
right? The one with the mental ramp?
Yeah, the one in Alhambra! The ramp was on a hill like so, it had huge legs on one side and almost no legs on the other side, it was crazy ha ha. I think it’s when he was starting The Firm in his garage. It’s such a shame I didn’t speak English at all, I mean I knew how to say ‘skate’ but for anything else it was signs ha ha. But I could tell he was super cool. The whole thing was insane… I still can’t believe he let us stay with him.
Did you meet him again later on when you ‘moved’ over there?
Yeah I did actually, when I was 21 and my English was a bit better! He came to pick us up in his van… It’s so funny how sometimes you only really remember the good things you know?
Ha ha yeah I think that also really depends on the person.
I guess, but I know there were definitely times when I was over some things, or worried, or even hungry… Because it was a rollercoaster when I was out there, I know it was. But all that stuff is just harder to remember for some reason. Like if I was in my twenties, I’d definitely do it all over again. It was one of the best experiences of my life.
Stamina ad, 2000. Ph. Seu Trinh

================================================================================

BY admin  •  August 28, 2018
Carhartt WIP Taipei Gallery
Max Palmer, Losi grind. Photo: Alex Pires.
In anticipation of the Jake Harris edit we’ll be releasing tomorrow, here’s some shots of Sylvain Tognelli, Max Palmer and Rémy Taveira’s recent trip to Taipei for Carhartt WIP, with special guest Mike Arnold.
Click through the gallery below:
View Gallery | 47 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 2, 2023
Core Values – Catching Up With Madars Apse
Frontside 50-50 Vilnius, Lithuania. Photo: Artu-ras Jendovickis.
Words by Arthur Derrien
In the lead-up to this article Madars was kind enough to offer me a little summary of what he’d been up to in the last few years as we hadn’t chatted much since the days of him living in London, and this email ended with ‘I am 33 now, skating since 11 and wanna skate forever you know?’. I’d completely forgotten we were the same age, and had no idea we’d been skating for the exact same amount of time. And I’m not sure why, but it weirded me out a bit… Madars is someone I’ve always admired both in terms of his skating and his ability to make mature decisions. When he was in town all those years ago it was to finish his bachelor’s degree, and being at the time often surrounded by people that could skate all day because they did it for a living, I found solace in knowing that I knew a ‘pro skater’ that was putting themselves through the same nause as I was, i.e. going to Uni, even though they kind of didn’t have to. I know: extremely childish.
He’s also someone who I noticed very early on would go out of their way to make others feel comfortable. I met him when we were in our late teens on one of my first proper skate trips, which was for DC Shoes, and we were going around France with Stephane Larance as the TM, the whole French team, and Jack Curtin and Chany Jeanguenin (!) as ‘guests’ for some reason… Needless to say, I felt ridiculously out of place. I also got sick almost straight away, so was out of action for the first few days and had to face the ‘So are you even gonna step on your board today?’ comments most mornings. And although he probably doesn’t even remember it, this guy did everything he could to encourage me and get me to stop pranging, which played a huge part in me deciding to stick it out on what turned into one of the most memorable trips of my life.
Anyway, long story short, that’s why it felt extra nice to read that he was doing well, that he was in a happy, solid relationship, that his girlfriend had got him hooked on surfing and snowboarding, that in the context of his Red Bull ‘Skate Tales’ show he’d recently been to the States, India, Ethiopia, Uganda, Brazil, Argentina, Russia, Japan… I was stoked for him, but also kinda envious. It also did something to me that I knew was inescapable when we agreed to do this piece… It made me address my feelings towards the elephant in the room: Red Bull. My stance on them has always been pretty straightforward: it’s a company that operates outside of skateboarding’s delicate little eco-system (your local SOS does not benefit from what they do in any way whatsoever), with its sales going towards making extremely rich people even richer. They put BMXers in hot air balloons to sell you energy drinks that are bad for you: they’re bone. Easy. Talking to someone you admire as a skater and respect as a person about why they chose to endorse a product like this one: not so easy. So it started to make me question this logic that until that point had been an unshakable truth… Do I really have a leg to stand on when most of the interviews in this magazine get conducted at the pub, with a huge percentage of them depicting some form of mashman ridiculousness for comedic purposes? Could that not be seen as glorifying something arguably worse? And if I tried to explain to an alien, or to an elderly relative even, that skating for a big energy drink company is really wack, even though you get paid loads, and get to travel all around the world, but that skating for a massive sportswear multinational is extremely cool, reckon they would get it? Yup, I was clearly spiralling. How does one stop spiralling? You face your fears… So we had ‘the chat’.
Ride-on 50-50 Murg, Switzerland Photo: Alan Maag.
‘I’ve been skating for Red Bull for 17 years now,’ Madars explained, ‘and when they reached out to me at the age of 15/16, all I wanted was to be a core, core skater. I didn’t want to be a contest skater with big logos and look like a NASCAR driver, you know, I just really wanted to be just like my favourite skaters: normal people that can do amazing tricks on a skateboard. And yeah I was a bit sceptical at first, but I got to travel so much, see so much of the world, meet so many people, learn so much, and you know the support they’ve shown me since, after all these years… I can only be thankful for that.’
When asked how he feels about being one of the few respected pros who have managed to navigate having a foot in both the energy drink/corpo sponsor world and the traditional skateboard world with tons of legit magazine interviews, videos parts, etc. he went on explaining that certain things along his journey had essentially made it a no brainer for him. ‘The first couple of years when I was on Red Bull, for the manager, who is a good friend of mine, the main goal was for me to finish university. He was honestly supporting me because he wanted me to grow as a person, you know… I was at a stage where I wanted to quit studying because I couldn’t afford the tuition fee but he pulled me through it, and that made me appreciate it even more. And after all these years I can say it, yeah, I’m a full on 100% Red Bull athlete. Especially now that things with DC are kind of stopping, Red Bull has become my main sponsor, and you know, I’ve got to eat and support my family.’
Madars went on sharing that every month he supports his father who, following several strokes, now has a health condition that requires a lot of care, which made me feel like a little bit of a dickhead for pursuing this line of questioning and obviously put things into perspective… But seeing me slightly thrown off by the information, and in typical Madars fashion, he didn’t hesitate to lift the mood: ‘oh but don’t worry he’s good, he’s happy, we still argue every other day and drink vodka together ha ha.’
Ollie, Los Angeles. Ph: Matt Fookes.
Interestingly our conversation also led us to examine something that under the surface inevitably played a huge role in us even having this conversation: what it means to be ‘core’. ‘Maybe I’m also not as hardcore a skater as some.’ Madars told me. ‘If being a hardcore skater is caring only about a certain type of skating, caring about fashion, maybe I don’t fit into that. I see someone like Andy Anderson, who is obviously very different from all that, and I think that’s really cool. That’s why with my Skate Tales show I’ve pushed to explore all these different kinds of skating… I think it’s amazing that there’s people out there like Kilian Martin who have been skating forever in a way that’s completely different and love it just as much as we do and have the opportunity to keep doing it… I know it probably sounds cheesy but there’s beauty in everything I think. If something is an NBD or a trick I haven’t seen before, that’s the most important thing for me really, I’m going to double tap.’
And reading between the lines here, I think there’s some truth to this. As Ted Barrow kindly reminded us in his
Iannucci Made Me Hardcore
piece last issue, there’s no set manual dictating the list of what makes a person or a set of actions ‘core’ and not ‘core’. It’s your own influences and set of rules that dictate what will make you feel this way. And that thought was firmly lodged in my brain when later on in our chat he told me ‘and also it means that I can just continue to skate as much as I want and not be stuck in an office, you know?’ Something that was obviously met with ‘what, like me?’ And as I replied to him that no offence was taken, it did make me wonder if making (what I’d consider to be) sacrifices in order to actually be out doing what you love the most every single day really is less ‘core’ than being stuck behind a laptop all day worrying about how the piece you’re working on might contribute to Red Bull’s growing influence on our culture… Maybe it is. Maybe not. Maybe who cares as it’s all so subjective anyway. It’s his journey not ours, and what we’re getting from it is another few years of gorgeous crook pop-over shapes and a reminder that Madars is still the lovely human he always was.
Crooked grind pop-over Paris. Photo: Alex Pires.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  May 25, 2016
Putting the Tea in Team – Lovenskate and Carhartt in India
Photos by Rich West
Words by Stuart Smith
There are few places skateboarding has not landed in, and for us, and what we do, the world is getting smaller and smaller. However, the fact that you can meet a guy on a DIY build in Bolivia, and two years later be drinking beers with him and his lady in their apartment in Bangalore, is testament to how the adventure is getting bigger and bigger. So, how did 12 guys end up in South India with Aloo Jeera down their shirts and concrete in their eyes? Well, we (Lovenskate) have been talking to long time supporter and tea enthusiast Bertrand (Carhartt WIP) for a while about doing another Tea-based project together. Having made teacups, flasks, and a skate-able mug together, the next logical step seemed to be to go to the source itself, the tea plantations of the Western Ghats, and why not help expand ‘The Cave’ skatepark in Bangalore and bomb some hills along the way!?
The crew was heavy: Samu Karvonen, Ewen Bower, Lee Santer, Rich West, Aaron Wilmot, Matt Ransom, Denis Lynn, Alex Hallford, Alex Barton, Dan Hill, self appointed TM Mikey Patrick, and me. Now, the last thing you want to read is, ‘on day one we did this, and this private joke happened, and then on day two blah blah’, because everyone has been on a trip with their crew, and sometimes you just can’t do it justice in words. So what I’ll do is share some notes, some facts, and some wisdom. Hopefully it will help inspire your next journey to some far-flung corner of the globe.
The Chaos
“The roads here are insane! Imagine being an ambulance driver here! You want a rush?!”
– Alex Hallford on the streets of Bangalore.
In India, one constant is chaos. It’s unimaginably fast where you should be going slow and desperately slow when there is all the room in the world to go fast. Crazy to think that the place that gave us yoga and Ayurveda (the natural science of health longevity and rejuvenation), is the same place that allows you to drive the wrong way down a motorway, set fire to your weekly rubbish on the pavement, let the holy cow graze on plastic in the central reservation, and will without question drag you naked out of the sea at midnight and send you to bed!
The Bus
“Does anyone have a lighter?”
– Samu Karvonen
Samu Karvonen, frontside nosegrind.
India is a big place, and the roads are long. If you’re going on a trip, it’s best to pay extra for a big bus and very patient driver who understands that on the journey, to keep moral high, it is important to make regular toilet stops, and to buy beer and fireworks.
Fags are cheap, but lighters are few and far between, so if you’re Samu, and you don’t smoke, and the bus is several hundred miles from the next stop, make sure you just throw the lighter out of the window and make everyone really fucking angry.
The dangers of pissing by the roadside in Munnar are few and far between, the worst being potential elephant attacks.
The Alcohol
Kerala has a state-wide ban on the sale of alcohol. But here, like everywhere else in the world, people love to get plastered; so they’ve come up with a genius way of getting round it. Picture the scene:
‘We’d like to order some beers please.’
‘Sorry sir, we are not permitted to serve beer here, we only have the special tea.’
‘OK, and what’s the special tea?’
‘Beer sir.’
‘OK, then 12 special teas please.’
‘Very good sir.’
(Waiter returns with 12 beers in mugs)
Rules are rules in India, and bribes are considered insulting. If you’re caught with alcohol, expect a heavy fine or worse. However it pays to always keep back at least 50 rupees from the beer shop to payoff the border control and to stop the police tearing the bus apart.
Dennis Lynn, boardslide to fakie.
The Cuisine
When you tell people you’re going to India, the first thing that comes out of anyone’s mouth is ‘deli belly’ usually followed by a fart noise. Perhaps it’s because we stuck to the busy locals, where the food is prepared fresh and regularly and perhaps it’s because we spend so much time picking ourselves up from the dirt, that we have bombproof immune systems. So by some miracle, none of us got sick – none of us except Mikey, who got diarrhoea, from a KFC.
Matt: “Denis why are you wearing a beanie!? You’re in India!”
Denis: “Because it just goes with my outfit. Sometimes you gotta sacrifice comfort for style?”
Putting the Tea in Team
Munnar is as popular with honey-mooning couples as it is with holidaymakers escaping to the mountains from the sweltering cities. It is also home to the vast rolling tea plantations, which supply the world. It’s not ideal for skateboarding, but where is the adventure in that? Luckily we had Tony, our hotel manager turned spot-guide and getaway driver.
From the highest point in Munnar town, a Mosque, a Hindu temple and a Christian Church all face each other. A local told us: ‘The word Munnar means three rivers, and the three rivers symbolise the three faiths. In Munnar, all three faiths are equal, and exist in harmony.’
A thought as refreshing as the tea.
The School
“No School, No Skate!”
– Vineeth, teacher at SISP
Kovalam School is amazing! The work that Sebastian Indian Social Projects (S.I.S.P.) have done to promote learning and accelerate social change is insane, and what a way to do it! Joining forces with HolyStoked (Bangalore) and the 2er Crew (Germany) they have created a safe environment where parents are happy for boys and girls to play together (something sadly still frowned upon in much of India). Can you imagine if your school had turned its top floor and playground into a skatepark? The only thing you have to do to make use of it is go to school.
There are the heap of other factors that make Kovalam so incredible: constant warmth, idyllic beaches, great surf, fresh coconut water straight from the tree, hoards of 40+ divorcee cougars out to get their hands on you… I’m not joking; the place is crawling with them!
Lee Santer, frontside crook.
HolyStoked
“Nothing owes you nothing”
– Denis Lynn
Right now, DIY is hotter than a 50 Rupee Masala Dosa. For some however, if they want to skate, it’s essential. Since the ‘Make Life Skate Life’ park in Bangalore was shut down due to some horrible legal business, Shake and the rest of the HolyStoked Collective have made it their mission to provide space where they can not only skate, but where they can give lessons, build a skateboard hub, and show India that skateboarding is a positive force. So far they have secured an undercover spot with some wooden ramps in a metro station, and expansion to ‘The Cave’ skatepark in the suburbs continues.
If you’ve got to get it done, do it yourselves!
Samu Karvonen, ollie.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 7, 2024
Peak Times – Polar in England
Oski Rozenberg, frontside ollie to 50-50, Bradford.
Words by Ben Powell
Photography by Rafal Wojnowski
There was a very clear epiphanic moment during the hectic finale of the UK Polar tour that focused on a teenage girl learning 50-50 shove-its out on a ledge emblazoned with the name of Polar’s latest (and Sirus F Gahan’s first) video,
Everything is Normal
. Oftentimes, these skateboarding epiphanies happen with little foreshadowing. One minute you’re blithely watching somebody trying a trick amid a demo and the next, you’re experiencing a sudden, intuitive perception of, or insight into, the essential meaning of something. Or to put it in a less convoluted manner: watching teenage skateboarders learning new tricks in a pub, cheered on by dudes from “The Olympics” was really something. If there was one definitive take home from the past week’s Polar-shaped adventure then, for me, and for most of the other regular skaters who turned up to soak in the proceedings, the above probably nails it.
Obviously, said statement is somewhat reductive, young Oski is far more than just “a dude from The Olympics” and the Project House demo/happening in Leeds was more than just a “session on a ledge” but if you’ll indulge me, I’ll attempt further ruminations.
As a thought experiment, it’s interesting to consider what the purpose of a skateboard tour is. On a surface level at least, the answer is simple: brands go on tour to promote the products associated with their skaters; to promote the act of skateboarding itself to anyone intrigued enough to follow the Instagram breadcrumb trail; and thirdly, to collect photographs and video footage in locations outside of the everyday experiences of the brand’s riders. So far, so obvious right?
Dylan Mills, crooked grind, London.
By my reckoning this must be the third UK Polar Skate Co tour. The first, way back in 2013, came at a point where Polar had already sunk its fangs into the neck of global skateboarding and was part of an emergent movement of new, completely skater-run brands inspiring a younger generation who were less concerned with bowing to the gods of old and more inclined to follow those championing a shift in both theme and in form which reminded them of their own skate scenes and friends.
Eleven years ago, Polar was popular but it hadn’t yet ascended to the position it holds today as indisputably one of the most influential skate brands of the last decade. The fact that all ten of the riders/filmers/distro heads who made up that inaugural 2013 tour slept in my two-bedroom house ought to tell you a lot about the brand’s trajectory since that first visit to Yorkshire. Of the crew who came the first time, only Oski was present in 2024, (although ex-Polar pro Jerome Campbell did turn up for the Project House demo), but the vibe was the same. In 2013, led by Polar founder and general lunatic Pontus Alv, the team attacked demos and crusty street spots under the clarion call of “Charge!” This time around, even without the physical presence of Pontus, an equally industrious attitude was evident: made especially impressive by the fact that of the six riders on the tour, only two could really skate by the last two days due to injuries.
Oski Rozenberg tailgrab over Jamie Platt, Tottenham DIY, London
Alongside the unexpected mirroring of my presence on both tours, the fact that Polar once again found themselves on demo duties in Leeds (in the north of England) speaks of an existing relationship between the brand and that is via the curated mediums of magazine articles and skate videos, I say this: being a sponsored skater most definitely has its upsides but all the free shoes in China can’t obscure the downsides. Imagine being Dylan Mills on your first trip outside of the States, keen to drink in the experience and to fill your brain with novelty and culture, only to end up breaking your ribs a few days in, on a drop-in to 50-50 that you’d pulled perfectly on your first attempt. Not that this dampened his enthusiasm too much though. “The ribs are worse than I thought, I’m not even able to imitate skating right now, but whatever, that’s on me for doing the trick first try and then assuming that I’d be able to do it again ‘easily’. The golden rule is, if you do it first try then just accept the good fortune and walk away. Even with that though, I loved this trip. Coming from LA, everything I experienced was completely new: even down to the fact that we could ride bikes around London to spots or walk to spots in Leeds. Back home you’re stuck in cars for hours and then generally you get kicked out immediately whereas people really didn’t seem to mind us skating in the UK. The biggest surprise for me though was the architecture that I saw – Big Ben in particular, California just doesn’t look like that. Likewise, when we drove part of the country.
Shin Sanbongi, ollie, Leeds
As Seth Curtis, brand development manager at Keen Dist (Polar’s distro) put it, “We have a great relationship with Welcome skate store (Leeds-based skater-owned-shop). They’re very proactive, the local skate community is a very diverse and young scene and, looking in from the outside, is one of the strongest in the UK. Geographically it makes sense too as anyone from either end of the country can get to Leeds relatively easily so, given that the tour is ultimately there to promote the new video, it was a no-brainer to come here again. Plus, although we did spend time in London first, by moving north we avoided the pitfalls of being stuck in an area where everything has been skated to death already.”
Again, in an echo of the first Polar UK tour, the riders were exposed to the stark contrast between the leafy suburbs and grandiose architecture of London and the somewhat dystopian environs of northern England’s post-industrial landscape.
Oski Rozenberg, grasser, Stockwell, London
You see that crazy looking sculpture that Oski is ollieing to 50-50 on? Insane looking spot, right? What you don’t see in Raf’s shot is the fact that the space around it also comprises a homeless encampment/hard drugs blind spot. Looking at the photo, you’d be forgiven for assuming that these sculptures, (“Fibres” by local artist Ian Randall) were the centrepiece of the space whereas in fact they serve mainly to signpost the place where you’d go to shoot up. This would be a repeated theme of this trip (and indeed of nearly all skate tours) in so far as the reality beyond the photos and footage is generally much less glamourous than you’d expect. Rotherham in 2013, Bradford in 2024 – which salubrious location will provide the next backdrop to Oski’s supernatural ability one wonders…
The other persistent themes of the trip were rain and injury. Seth again, “It rained constantly. In London. In Bradford. In Leeds. The attitude of the lads made this less of a downer than it could’ve been though. Their willingness to get the job done was amazing. Given the adversity we faced in terms of injuries sustained both before the tour started and during, plus the constant downpours, this trip could have easily been a non-starter in other hands…”
Oski Rozenberg, grind up to tail block, Tottenham DIY, London
To those of you whose main interaction with capital ‘S’ skateboarding is via the curated mediums of magazine articles and skate videos, I say this: being a sponsored skater most definitely has its upsides but all the free shoes in China can’t obscure the downsides. Imagine being Dylan Mills on your first trip outside of the States, keen to drink in the experience and to fill your brain with novelty and culture, only to end up breaking your ribs a few days in, on a drop-in to 50-50 that you’d pulled perfectly on your first attempt. Not that this dampened his enthusiasm too much though. “The ribs are worse than I thought, I’m not even able to imitate skating right now, but whatever, that’s on me for doing the trick first try and then assuming that I’d be able to do it again ‘easily’. The golden rule is, if you do it first try then just accept the good fortune and walk away. Even with that though, I loved this trip. Coming from LA, everything I experienced was completely new: even down to the fact that we could ride bikes around London to spots or walk to spots in Leeds. Back home you’re stuck in cars for hours and then generally you get kicked out immediately whereas people really didn’t seem to mind us skating in the UK. The biggest surprise for me though was the architecture that I saw – Big Ben in particular, California just doesn’t look like that. Likewise, when we drove through the Peak District on the way to Leeds – even in the rain everywhere looked pretty.”
Dylan Mills, ollie, London
One example of the general public’s embrace of street skating in the UK, (looked at from Dylan and Shin’s perspective particularly, with them both being from places generally hostile to street skating) was an interaction we had in Millenium Square in Leeds. Whilst Shin was filming a line ending on the backside 5-0 on the banked wallride, an older lady who bore more than a passing resemblance to a British TV doctor who used to host a show examining people’s shit, (Dr Gillian McKeith if you’re interested) took an interest in what was happening. Bearing in mind that the spot lies on one of the busiest thoroughfares in the city and that we were skating there at rush hour on a Friday, you’d be forgiven for assuming that people would’ve been wholly unstoked on a svelte Japanese man firing himself into the pavement repeatedly. But not so. Instead, our middle-aged spectator took to whooping encouragement, filming Shin on her phone and then, when the friend she was waiting for finally turned up, regaling said friend with tales of the amazing things that the “Japanese boy” was doing. Very wholesome.
Oski Rozenberg, ollie transfer, Leeds
As we’re on the subject of “wholesome”: the upside to Dylan’s disastrous attempt to redo the drop-in to grind was the fact that he encountered socialised healthcare first hand. “That was a very different experience – the fact that I could just wander into a hospital and get seen for free like that was amazing. I guess that almost made up for the slam as it’s not an experience that I assume your average American tourist would encounter. The doctor was lovely to me, she checked me out and made sure that my lungs were still inflating and then sent me on my way with some pain meds. All for free too. That’s something I’ll remember for sure…”
Dylan Mills, taildrop to 50-50, Leeds
The day after Dylan’s hospital adventure saw more rain, an exhibition in the art space above Welcome Skate Store (shout out Village Books) to promote the book of amazing skate and street photography that accompanies the Everything is Normal video and, ultimately, the demo in the pub/ performance space/restaurant AKA Project House. As intimated above, this demo was a deliberately chilled out event with limited obstacles that spoke directly to Polar’s aesthetic and history. What better demo set up for a brand that announced itself via a video entitled
No Complies & Wallrides+shuvits
than two wallride ramps and a ledge built by the skaters of the city hosting the demo?
Det är väl perfekt?
For those who don’t know, the venue ‘Project House’ is an events space and bar just outside of Leeds city centre, which is co-owned by the skaters behind Welcome, along with several other proselytisers of indie culture. Drink independent beer, listen to live bands, eat fancy but locally sourced food and, in this instance at least, watch Oski do his best Spiderman impression. With the rain falling hard on the humdrum town outside, a very heated session quickly developed with the still mobile members of the Polar team (Shin, Aaron and Oski) joining forces with crowds of local heads to give the walls and ledge a seriously joyful kicking for what felt like hours. Look at that picture of Oski vertically nose-bumping the pillar and ask yourself this simple question: is it any surprise that his shoe has a shark on it? My guy chomps the impossible for breakfast. Outstanding.
Day turned into night, product was awarded for locals getting involved and Polar’s new Japan-based video ‘Everything is Normal’ was premiered on the big screen to choruses of approval. Lots of kids went home with free stuff and memories that will never fade. Much has been said in this magazine and elsewhere of late about the cultural importance of in-real-life demos and happenings. Yeah, you can watch it on your phone screen almost as soon as it’s occurred whether you’re there or not but that is no substitute for getting a high five from Shin Sanbongi for your back lip. You get me?
Shin Sanbongi, slappy backside 5-0, Leeds
Very little else to say really, so let’s sign off with the Seth Curtis perspective on why demos and events like this matter more than ever in 2024.
“Relationships between stores and distributors and brands are vitally important and are something that Mike (Halls) and Pontus really value. Doing things like this tour are a way to champion and support the stores that support us. It’s all well and good paying lip service to that idea but you need more than that. This year, where skateboarding is in a difficult and strange position retail-wise, I think it’s even more crucial to be proactive and to try and make things happen rather than just sitting on your hands and waiting for the wind to change. If you want people to be hyped on your brand or your skaters or your product then you need to give them reasons to be hyped. Whether it’s 1975, 1985, 1995 or 2025 the principle is the same: the demo is always a hit.
It may have been on the wane somewhat, but I think, given the current retail climate, it’s time to go back to the traditions that have kept people excited since the earliest days. You don’t need to build a replica of El Toro – just turn up and skate with people. It’s not rocket science.”
Oski Rozenberg, nosebonk, Project House, Leeds

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 14, 2020
7 Day Project: Youness & Friends in Belgium
Youness Amrani, June 2020. Ph. DVL
As a human being on planet Earth at this precise moment in time, preparing to interview Youness Amrani about a week of skateboard tricks feels incredibly vacuous and wrong. In fact even just the idea of essentially being in the business of entertaining people is kind of painful. I’m sure I’m not the only person to be having an existential crisis right now, but when you devote so much time and energy into something as trivial as skateboarding, in times like these it’s hard not to feel like it’s a little bit wasteful.
Luckily by the time I got off my call with him that feeling of general apathy had pretty much evaporated. I’d even go as far as saying that it got me thinking about why I started this magazine with my friends and why I want to keep doing it… Youness has always been one of most grounded and honest people in skateboarding and the conversation you’re about to read was a much-needed reminder that our little culture and community is not a self-sufficient bubble that exists independently from the rest of the world. It’s just the lens through which we see it and should be one of the tools we use to change it.
Photography by DVL
Interview by Arthur Derrien
Yo!
Youness Amrani: Hey man, how’s it going? You in London?
Yeah all good I guess… Everything is obviously pretty crazy at the moment but I’m fine. We’ve all been going to all these protests and before that it was lockdown mode so not much skating… How are you? What’s it been like in Belgium?
Yeah and it’s only getting crazier! With all that other stuff happening it’s as if suddenly Corona was gone!
It’s been alright here I guess… People are really scared here because the number of deaths (per capita) attributed to Corona is a lot higher than in other countries but that’s basically because any new death was almost automatically attributed to it and Belgium is such a small country… I don’t think it was any worse than in other places in Europe though.
And then skateparks were closed but other than that you were still allowed to go out and street skate and stuff so it wasn’t too bad. The hardest thing for me was just having to stay in my city, as there’s nothing to do at all there…
Youness Amrani, heelflip
Yeah I was actually going to ask you about that… Out of all the dudes from your generation that came up out of Belgium (Phil Zwijsen, Axel Cruysberghs, Jarne Verbruggen, etc.), you’re the only one that decided to stay in Belgium. How are you feeling about that choice now that you can’t travel at all ha ha?
Ha ha and it’s not even like I live in Antwerp or Brussels either, like I live in Hasselt, this small city where I grew up and there’s basically no spots. I mean there’s like five but that’s all I’ve skated in the last two months.
Bet it felt like being 13 again.
Yeah exactly, which was cool for the first two weeks, but after that I was fucking over it. We’re allowed to go to other cities now so I’ve been doing that a little bit recently, which has been good. No crossing borders or anything like that yet though.
It’ll be interesting to see the long-term effects of these travel limitations on skateboarding… Like so much of what the big brands were doing until now involved constantly flying loads of people halfway around the world.
I was actually supposed to fly out to the States like two weeks before all this shit got crazy, but when I asked Nike for a ticket there was already a travel ban in place.
Laurens Willems, ollie
Which is really good… Nike was definitely one of the brands that were the most on it with that straight away.
Yeah. And then there’s everything that’s been going on in America…
And all the long overdue conversations, protests and outrage these thngs have sparked everywhere else in the world.
Yeah… It feels like history is repeating itself again and again and again. This shit has happened so many times now and every time you feel like it’s going to change but it doesn’t.
It has to though… And it really feels like it’s the first time that the Black Lives Matter movement has had this much traction amongst young people. That’s why we weren’t posting anything on the site or Instagram last week (other than protest info and petitions and stuff). It really felt like our demographic was engaging with all this in a way that they had never done before and we didn’t want to take away from that.
And I get that… But it’s also interesting because like, should everything else just stop and go out of business because of this? Like would that help?
Youness Amrani, frontside varial heelfip
Fuck knows but it’s what felt right. And yeah we maybe shouldn’t stop doing what we do or we’ll all be fucked, but also it shouldn’t just return back to ‘normal’…
What are your thoughts on how the skateboard community has been reacting to it all? A lot of the vibes I’ve been getting are ‘we’re all one big family so we’ve sort of got nothing to worry about’, which is not something I agree with.
Yeah that’s bullshit. There’s racism in skateboarding. The first time I went on trips with American skaters they would call me ‘the terrorist’. Like on all my first trips that was the go-to nickname… I think Chet Childress started it but everyone kept it going. When we’d get to a spot it would be like, ‘what did the terrorist say to the 15-stair? Boom!’ And to be honest at the time I was going along with it and treating it like it was funny but as I got older I realised that was pretty fucking disrespectful.
And then ten years later I was in a terrorist attack, a real one. You remember the one in Brussels at the airport? Well I was somewhere in there between the two bombs. And it really got me thinking… Like these people were joking, calling me a terrorist but do they realise that actual terrorists would definitely kill me too? Like I’m a victim too.
And all the stuff like that dude Na-Kel (Smith) calling out Kyle Walker and all these people for saying the N word: I think that shit is funny man… You can’t be saying that shit in the van when you’re a white dude from Oklahoma ha ha.
Yeah it’s madness.
‘But I live in Long Beach now and hang out with black people all the time so it’s fine right?’ ha ha. It’s fucked up that it took that long for all that shit to come out. I feel like it would have been better to address it straight away. I know it’s not always easy though… And it’s all coming out because of the frustration they have from all of the shit that has been going on.
Youness Amrani, frontside feeble grind
I guess the longer you leave it the more likely you are to get the old, ‘I’m not the person I used to be when I said those things…’
Yeah… It’s like the Chet Childress thing. Like he’d call me a terrorist all the time! But he was also just always drunk and taking drugs and shit. He didn’t even know what the fuck he was saying, so I’m not really going blame him now for saying that shit ten years ago… But it still sucks.
What about growing up in Belgium, is it something you experienced a lot at home?
Yeah people were racist to me but also it was hard too because I was skating… So the Moroccans didn’t like me because I skated and the Belgians didn’t like me because I was Moroccan. Like where am I… But at the same time at the skatepark it was all good with the other skaters… Just that I never felt like a Moroccan, until I got older of course and started meeting different people.
But even in the skate industry there are people that are racist: maybe not necessarily the ones working in it but some pro skaters or European skaters that are really good.
Yep. And even if the people working in the skate industry aren’t overtly racist it doesn’t mean it’s not affected by systemic racism. Like it’s not because we have loads of black pros in all the videos and magazines that skateboarding has nothing to worry about. Look at who’s interviewing you right now, who takes the decisions at all the big companies…
Yeah that’s so true… Look at anybody who’s at the top.
This shit is bigger than skating; it affects our industry just like it affects everything else in the world. That’s why just like with everything else in the world we need to change it.
I think a lot of shit is going to change after all this that’s for sure… First off, way less people are going to get paid in the skate industry. It’s going to be weird…
What as in with the financial impact of Corona? Yeah definitely. It feels like someone is trying to hit the reset button on the world. And it needs it.
And board sales are like the best they’ve ever been!
Yeelen Moens, hippie jump
Yeah so it’s not like skateboarding is going anywhere…
One of my homies who has a shop was saying that last month was his best month ever. He sold €100K worth of goods in one month. And the actual shop had only been open for three weeks of that month!
Maybe the new ‘normal’ will involve people like your mate getting properly rewarded for doing good things for the scene and more money being invested into people staying at home and working on longer projects instead of endless last minute flights to the other side of the world for pointless product launches…
Yeah I mean I’m pretty sure I’m never going to go back to the States. Like I don’t really want to… I’ve been to New York, I’ve been to SF, I’ve been to LA, to Atlanta… And spots suck. I don’t really care for it. I’d rather travel to other places. I’d rather just go to France or the UK.
And with everything that’s going on… Like I didn’t like it before but now it feels even more shit. There’s a couple of cool people to skate with but the whole mentality around it I don’t like. I’d pretty much just go there to show my face, shake a couple hands and come back anyway.
Yeah and the days of having to be in the States to have a skate career are long gone, you really don’t need to be there anymore.
Yeah and that shit changed so quick. Like one day all of a sudden it was cool to be in Europe because of people like Hjalte (Halberg) and stuff. And with things like Instagram and the Internet it doesn’t matter where you are, people see everything anyway. It’s crazy that ten years ago everyone was still telling me that if I never went to the States I’d never go pro.
When would you say that change happened?
To me it really changed about five years ago.
Youness Amrani, backside noseblunt
Which is interesting because that’s exactly when we started the mag… I’m convinced part of the reason
Free
worked out is because we got so lucky with the timing. It allowed us to be a part of that change.
Damn it’s been five years? That’s crazy… I remember when the first one came out.
With everything we’ve already spoken about in mind, what was it like to have an intense week of trying to get skate photos in the midst of all this?
It was just tiring seeing and hearing about all this shit constantly before and after skating… Like before I’d even started skating on some days I’d feel tired just because of checking the news in the morning. It was quite good for skating though in the sense that people were super mellow about it… Like people didn’t seem to care at all. Almost like they couldn’t bring themselves to complain about something like skating with all this other shit going on…
And it’s not like I’m going to stop skating because of it. Skating is the only thing that allows me to get away from all the bullshit for a bit. I hadn’t really skated anything other than flatground and a manual pad for 2-3 months and I definitely hadn’t grinded any rails, but going to that 12-stair and being really scared… At that point I could forget about everything. And that’s what I really need right now. I think everybody needs something like skating… That’s probably why the whole world is going crazy right now. Like every time you look at your phone all you see is videos of cops beating people up… It feels like too much.
Kevin Vu, frontside bluntslide
I think to process things and think about how to do your bit it helps to be able to step away from it at times.
Yeah… And even always hearing everyone say that each of us can make things change… It just makes me feel like I can’t change much…
Well I think you can and you are. Having these conversations about race and racism in an interview that loads of kids will read is a part of that. When kids see their heroes call that shit out it raises awareness and changes mentalities.
I guess but what I mean is that I don’t like talking about it on social media so much as people just have too many stupid fucking opinions… I hate having people I don’t know telling me what I should or shouldn’t do… Shut the fuck up and do your part, do what feels right to you; don’t just tell other people what to do. If I want advice I’ll talk to my friends and my family, older people who aren’t on Instagram and Facebook all day, people that have actually been through shit in their lives.
And it’s not because you aren’t bragging about having donated money or reading a million books that you aren’t doing those things or others that feel right to you…
How was it shooting with Davy (Van Laere) during that week? I don’t think he’d been out very much before that…
I mean yeah it was also weird because Davy is super scared of getting it. And also because my mum was working in a care home on the floor with all the people that had Corona… Like she had to work with the whole suit thing on and shit. When I’d go to visit her I had to stay super far away… It’s been weird. Even now when I see her I don’t even give her a hug anymore because it’s just become normal not to… That’s why I only have a small group of friends I always hang out with and that’s it; I’m not trying to be with a hundred different people.
But yeah Davy is 48 now you know? He’s scared that if he gets it it’ll really fuck him up. And Geoffrey (Van Hove) who came to film a few times, he actually had it at the beginning of March. And on two of the days Geoffrey had to go in Davy’s car! It would just be Davy in the front with a mask, Geoffrey in the back with a mask ha ha. Some tricks they were both in there fisheye together: ‘just do it a couple of times for me then you can land it properly for Geoff’ ha ha. He was stressing… I sort of ended up deciding to just do all the tricks just for the photo and then I’ll just go back to film them again later…
Youness Amrani, 360 flip
Your brother filmed some stuff as well though right?
So my brother Marwan actually got a camera a while back but never really used it without Geoffrey around because we didn’t know how to do the settings and stuff, but on the last day, the frontside feeble day, we finally figured it out and that was our first ever proper clip filmed together. Just for that it was one of the best days ever!
Aaaw… Maybe that’s a nice note to end this on.
Oh wait so that was it?
Ha ha yeah. You’ve read the mag before; you know I’m not just going to ask you how long the last handrail you backlipped was or something.
Ha ha I mean it was a good conversation!
Yeah it was great! Is there anything you’d like to add?
Just that both of my brothers have always had my back and I’d like to thank them for everything they’ve done for me. And my mum of course because she raised my brothers and always believed in us.
Youness and his brother Marwan Amrani.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  January 17, 2020
Tim Zom is not a Zombie
Backside tailslide, Rotterdam. Ph: Alex Papke.
For this piece my journey started with a mandatory viewing of
Zombie
(2014): the ‘critically acclaimed’ documentary about Tim Zom. For those of you who haven’t seen it, it’s basically a very stylised look at how Tim Zom, despite growing up in a rough neighbourhood of Rotterdam and doing time in jail, managed to overcome his dark past thanks to skateboarding and his unconditional love for his wife. I’m caricaturing a little bit but that’s the general gist of it… It’s a bit cheesy but admittedly quite moving at times. Plus they interview his grandma who seemed like an absolute legend.
Anyway when I first heard about the documentary’s existence, my reaction was ‘sick, this thing has mainstream appeal, it’s exactly the sort of thing his sponsors will like, which means cheques for the foreseeable future, which in turn means lots more
of his high octane “oh shit, what’s he doing up there?!” skateboarding on our screens. It’ll be good for everyone…’ It turns out I was right about him not slowing down (
his latest part
should be up on the site by the time you read this) but pretty much wrong about everything else.
– Arthur Derrien
Yoooooo how have you been man?!
Tim Zom: Good man! It’s been a while!
What have you been up to?
I’ve just been working loads. I’ve started my own company now… I’m in construction.
Sick!
Look at this behind me! It’s my friend Alexander’s garden house; I’m fixing that up today.
Looking good! For how long have you been doing this then?
Thanks man! I’ve been doing this for about two and a half years, three years maybe. I’ve been enjoying it, life’s been good!
Did you start the company around the time you stopped being paid to skate then?
Yeah I’d gotten married, I’d bought a house and I guess I needed to come up with a way to make money… I always liked working with my hands so I thought fuck it, why not?!
Tell me a little bit about being approached for this Zombie documentary then… What was going on with you at that point and what were your initial thoughts on the whole thing?
I’d been an Am for Skate Mental for two months, I was getting paid by Nike SB and Monster and this motherfucker Billy (Pols) from Holland got in contact with me and I guess I didn’t think about it too good… And everything got fucked up.
Go on…
I mean everything with my sponsors. Not my mood or actual skating… Because what you enjoy in skating or even your style of skating, nobody can take that away from you.
At what point did you start realising that saying yes to this thing was maybe a bad idea?
As soon as it was done… Just before the premiere Billy, the guy who made it, asked me to come over to check it out with some friends. He wanted to get my opinion, and the one thing I told him was that I didn’t want this one fight scene in there. I said I didn’t want it in there and that the people at Nike SB had told me that they definitely didn’t want it in there, as they don’t want to be associated with fighting and shit. But he kept going on about how it had to be spectacular and without it, it would be too flat, how you needed ups and downs… ‘No, there’s so much other stuff you can choose from!’ I remember saying. The next time I saw it the documentary was in the big theatre at the premiere with everybody (Editor’s note: for the International Film Festival in Rotterdam where it got second place) … And the fight was in there; there was nothing I could do about it.
Your grandma, who was heavily featured in the documentary and attending that night tragically passed away a few hours after the premiere… Are you comfortable talking about this?
Yeah she was at the premiere… You should have seen the smile on her face; it was beautiful. She had been straight away down for people with big cameras and stuff to come and film her… And once it was done, she couldn’t wait for it to come out! That’s what’s so cool about it; that she actually got to see it.
Boardslide all the way to transfer, Rotterdam. Ph. Berry Heesen
She’s amazing in it too. Everything she says in
Zombie
is so on point.
Ah man she was so positive… And REALLY from Rotterdam, like kind of crazy, ha ha, but would always say what she thought. She didn’t give a fuck you know? Anyway yeah around one o’clock in the morning after she got back from the premiere she walked into the living room where my uncle was chilling (he was living with her to take care of her because she was old) and she just told him: ‘Hey can you call an ambulance, I think I’m having a heart attack.’ Then they took her to hospital and that night she passed away…
Wow…
What happened with the film after the premiere? Because it was super well received at the film festival…
Yeah, what happened next was crazy. We got invited to a late night talk show to speak about it, and what do they do? They pull out that one fight clip…
And show the one thing you didn’t want in there to the whole of the Netherlands, on live television…
Yeah. And the guy I punched, he recognised me from the talk show and got in contact with the police! The next day they called me to the police station and I got in so much trouble over this fucking bullshit. I was sued 5000 euros for hitting him, had to do community service… It was a mess.
Do you still talk to Billy who directed it?
Nah man… He probably owes me money… That motherfucker sold that thing to Videoland, which is like the Dutch equivalent of Netflix.
No way! Was there an agreement about this stuff? Like if it did well were you supposed to get money?
Of course man there was a contract.
Crooked grind, Rotterdam. Photo: Alex Papke.
And you didn’t get any money from it?
Nope. I didn’t get shit.
Then, as if all that wasn’t enough, around the same time
the Skate Mental thing
started going to shit right? What was going through your head when all this was happening?
I mean you feel it man… I put all my faith in this one guy from the States who promised me a lot of things…
As in Brad (Staba) the Skate Mental guy?
Yeah. And the way it ended… I felt lost man. It’s a complicated story but basically I was on a trip with him and couldn’t take any cash out because I lost my bankcard so I asked him for money to eat. He told me he couldn’t do it from the credit card so I didn’t eat that day. The next day I skated again and asked for money for food in the evening again but again he didn’t have it… By the third day I was becoming fucking paranoid man. I was skating my ass off…
… And you couldn’t eat!
Nah but the food wasn’t a problem man, I’m used to it. Back in the day when I didn’t have money there would be times where I wouldn’t eat for one or two days and that’s fine. That wasn’t the point. It’s that I had four or five thousand euros in my account; I could have paid for the whole trip… All I wanted was for him to pay me something so I could eat and I’d pay him back as soon as I’d be back in Holland… But for some reason he just couldn’t do that. Then half a year later I saw him in Holland and asked him what was up with the Skate Mental thing and all he said was ‘you’ve been downgraded to the European team’. And I just thought to myself… There’s not even a European team, why are you bullshitting me? What’s the real reason? I didn’t understand and it frustrated me a lot because I had nobody to talk to about it, nobody knew him that well…
Ollie, Rotterdam. Photo: DVL.
Sorry man, that sounds really shit.
The main thing is that I thought he was a good friend and that with friends you can always talk, no matter how bad it is. It fucked with my head man; I really didn’t know what to do. And when I turned Am for them my father had just died so it was quite a difficult period for me anyway… So I just put it away in a corner of my head and just kept skating.
Then of course the documentary came out with that whole fight scene bullshit that Nike said they didn’t want in there…
Which ended up on national TV.
Yeah I think that’s why after that Nike didn’t want to deal with me or do anything with me anymore… It was the final straw.
It really shows how fragile your position as a paid skateboarder can be sometimes… A few ‘bad’ decisions and it can all be over. Not that anyone could have predicted that Zombie would lead to such a mess…
Yeah… But also, that’s life man. When you take difficult decisions, sometimes the decision isn’t good and you have to live with it. And all this stuff? It’s nothing man. When I was in jail I was with people who made some bad decisions, real ones – guys that are in there for 25 to life. My neighbour he was in jail for three murders… This is peanuts. I’m still living, I’m outside, I’m smiling. I really enjoy having my own company, I’ve built skateparks, houses, I’ve been renovating places… And I still get to skate loads. Like even if I work 10 hours I’ll go to the skatepark on a Wednesday night. It’s getting cold but on the weekends we still go street skating and we’re still getting footage!
Right after we finished recording this interview Tim sent me a funny selfie with his dog. Booba’s massive, like his head is bigger than Tim’s… The photo’s pretty cute. Anyway, as I was staring at
it, I remembered one of the first things I read about him: ‘Tim Zom is the kind of guy who goes to jail, gets out, and immediately jumps down some gnarly shit.’ It was the line
Thrasher
wrote underneath his Skate Mental part, which is how most of the world discovered his skating.
We’re not going to try and ascertain whether Billy Pols voluntarily fucked Tim over with this documentary. One thing is certain though: he was desperate to make that shoe fit. And that doesn’t mean he didn’t admire him: when I called Billy he told me how refreshing it had been to spend time around someone so pure; how once when they were eating in a restaurant, without saying a word, Tim had silently gotten up from his seat to give his hoodie to a homeless person he noticed waving from outside… It’s just that we as ‘the media’ need to be careful about how we cultivate the images of our heroes, because it has consequences. Tim is not a Zombie.
Photo: Marcel Veldman.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  October 3, 2022
Vladimir Film Festival 2022: An Interview with Nikola Racan
Master emcee Nikola Racan. Ph. Will Harmon
It was late 2013 when Aymeric Nocus emailed me about a new skate film festival he had just went to in Croatia. It was in a small fishing village in Croatia’s Istria region and the festival was called Vladimir. After speaking to Aymeric a bit about it I decided to check this festival out myself the following year. In September 2014 myself and Jacob Harris were picked up from Pula airport from a tall, slender, dark-haired smiling gentleman named Nikola Racan. Nikola immediately took us swimming in the Adriatic Sea and introduced us to his friend Marco Zubak. It turns out I actually had met Marco years before when he was living in Barcelona. Small world… Anyways, the next week we skated, swam, Jake showed his
11th Hour
film and we had a good time at our first
Vladimir Film Festival
along with about 50 other attendees. I promised to come back, and I did, many more times, and since that time in 2014 Vladimir has truly flourished. It’s gone from a 2-day festival to a 5-day one. Those 50 attendees have ballooned to 400 or so and skate filmmakers from all over the world have visited and premiered their films there. I interviewed Nikola about the festival way back then in 2014, but that was for a another now defunct magazine, so I was excited to interview him again, eight years later, for
Free
. Unfortunately Nikola got COVID the last two days of the festival, so Nikola, Marco and I all masked up and sat on Nikola’s porch where we chatted, drank coffee and reminisced about old times on my last morning before heading back to London.
Interview by Will Harmon
So can you tell us how the festival started?
Nikola Racan: It started really spontaneously 2011. The same people that are running Vladimir today are the same as when it started. We just wanted to take a break from you know, working in the summer season jobs that are all based here in the festivals for music, theatre and film. So we wanted to have a night for ourselves.
Have your own festival?
Yeah, well it was not the idea for a festival at first; the festival came on maybe a few years later, but that year we just wanted to have the night for ourselves. You know, it was kinda like to not work. And thanks to Marco (Zubak) and Sergej Vutuc we managed to get three films back then. One from the Antiz guys, Rick (Charnoski) and Buddy’s (Coan Nichols) movie
Bloodshed
and
Format Perspective
by Phil Evans were the first three movies that were played at the old DIY skatepark in Fažana. It was one-day event: skate session, movies, and my father, he made the fish for like, 50 people. And it was really small, and we didn’t even know that it will last 12 years and that it will be as it is today.
Well, yeah, it’s really moved on since then, hasn’t it?
Yeah!
And then so each year, it gets bigger and bigger. Are you worried it’s going to get too big?
I think this year, it’s bigger than last year. Well I was out for two days but what I saw from the audience, there are a lot of younger people coming to the festival, but they’re still a part of the younger generation of independent scenes around the world and around Europe. So we got people who are not as visible as some other crews and that’s what we do at Vladimir, we want to attract people who are like-minded, think like us… You know, you have a small scene in Poland, and I think it will grow. But I’m really happy that this year was big, but pretty chilled, in terms of you know, we didn’t have superstars or whatever, we didn’t have big brands trying to come through the back door and stuff.
VFF, Fažana, 2022. Ph. Will Harmon
It’s more for independent films, right? It’s essentially an independent film fest mostly?
Yeah mostly. It’s the epic DIY and… For example I would rather give an opportunity to some crews that are not like on top of the game, that people don’t know much about. Because I think it’s really refreshing to see for somebody that there’s a scene going on in some small town in Bulgaria, rather than to bring, I don’t know, the Polar guys here with their movie. We are not against that, of course. But we are trying to like…
Shine a light on the underground scenes…
Yeah, exactly, because I think that it’s way more pure. We are not obligated by any brand or anything… We are still without any financial support from the skateboard industry. We didn’t even go searching for that. Somebody offered us something but we said, ‘thank you, but it will turn maybe another direction.’ So if you asked me last year, I was afraid for this year… But now I’m not afraid because it was big, but chill here. It was no excess. So I think that’s what we were all afraid of, for this year that it could get way too big. But it’s still under the bubble.
The Thursday night skate market in Fažana. Ph. Will Harmon
And so how does your hometown of Fažana feel about Vladimir?
So we run Vladimir through our NGO skateboard club, August Senoa, named after the Croatian writer. And how do we get the funds for Vladimir? So we fill out applications for funding, and Pula, Fažana, all the local communities give us small amounts of money. Each one gives us I don’t know, maybe 1000 euros, so that’s not a lot. ‘Cause it’s a skateboard film festival, it’s not like a serious, big film festival. But let’s say we have 300 or 400 people that are coming to Fažana that are from all around Europe and the world. I don’t think you can find any festival in Croatia that has such a diverse, international crowd. I think people still don’t realise how important this is. But in another sense if I make phone calls, because that’s obviously my job, people listen to me, because I represent my friends. Yeah, I represent the people behind the Vladimir. So this year, I can say that the local community really understood the importance of Vladimir specifically with the Swedish gymnasium (Bryggeriet’s students) coming here. So they helped us last night at the gymnasium in Fažana. For last night’s screening I called the mayor and he said, ‘okay, I will call the principal of school and we will get the location.’
Fažana is pretty good for swimming. Ph. Will Harmon
Yeah because the screening was originally supposed to be at Brijuni Island. (Editor’s note: The Brijuni Island venue was cancelled due to the rainy weather.)
Yeah, so the mayor really helped us here, because to get into the school it’s pretty hard. We also have partners like the Pula Film Festival. We are partners with them so we can use their gear, equipment and stuff. That’s what the key of all of this is: that we are really good friends with everybody there. The managers, the directors, we are all really close and that’s because we are living in a small community and we can get to the people. If we did Vladimir in a bigger city it would cost 20 times more because everything you need to do it is an expensive rental. Since we are still small and we present ourselves as independent, and we are, people see that we are doing good things, and the Pula Film Festival knows this, so they’re giving us the gear and stuff for a small rental fee. So yeah, this year the local community really helped us.
That’s great. So apart from yourself, do you want to shout out the other people behind Vladimir?
No, no, it’s just me. I’m joking… So it’s not just me, I’m just a part of the organisation. So it’s Marco Zubak here who started the festival, Elvis Butkovic too… Elvis was here this year…
Skate trivia quiz night at Kasarna hosted by Marco Zubak and Brett Nichols. Ph. Will Harmon
Yeah, it was good to see him! (He couldn’t make it last year.)
Yeah, he got married two weeks ago. I was his best man at the wedding. Yeah, so Elvis is the main technician, Marco, then Marina who helps with logistics and everything, accommodation this stuff. Iris my girl, she’s taking care of PR, finance and all the other stuff… There’s Oleg who’s really good at setting up all the art shows and exhibitions… Tibor driving the van and doing all the stuff necessary… Then Nick Kunz helped a lot setting up the exhibitions with Marco, he was here a month before the festival. Aymeric Nocus, he did all the web texts for this year. He’s not here this time, but he’s been helping us do the text for a while. We get raw text and then we send it to Aymeric then he like spices it up for
the website
. Filip Tensek did interviews with
Patrik Wallner
and
Olly Todd
and last year Filip was helping do the skate trivia quiz with Marco, but this year Bret (Nichols) stepped in. There were volunteers like Sara, Tomo, Martin… Everybody has a role.
So what about most of the year when you’re when you’re not planning the festival… What are you up to?
So we all work. I work in a company that distributes graphic material. I have a full time job. I work in a warehouse. We distribute paper, chemicals, everything that is involved with graphic industries such as wine labels, medical labels, cigarette paper, glue that gets in contact with food, everything that’s based on that. So that’s my full time job. Nobody is employed by our NGO still. And also there’s Sergej here. I forgot to mention before, he’s who played the movies. He is a cinema technician. Okay, so we pay him to show the movies, but everybody from our organisation doesn’t get any money for this. Just like some volunteers and Sergej, people like the photographer, they get paid a little money, but like core of us, that’s like eight people, we don’t take any money from the council’s funding. Mostly how we finance ourselves is through the money we get from the bar in Kasarna. Because with the funding we need to pay a lot of accommodations, we need to pay equipment rental, we need to pay the venues you know… It’s not small festival, but anyway, we all work. We all have full-time jobs. I have a family… But Vladimir isn’t about making money. Even now we have some ideas for next year…
Spoken word and book readings at Fort Forno. Ph. Mikey Patrick
It’s kind of weird, one or two people were telling me they thought this might be the last year, and I don’t know how this rumour started, but that’s not true, right?
I got an email from one guy from the UK, same thing… He was asking for a spot at the skate market for selling zines. So he emailed me saying, ‘I heard this is the last year of Vladimir, hopefully it’s not that’s not the case.’ Yeah, I don’t know…
Yeah someone’s starting rumours, but I think you guys will do it again.
Hopefully, yeah.
I guess you can never think about it right after it happens. It’s like too much to take in…
I mean I got COVID, so I was not present for half if it, but from what people told me it had this really good energy this year.
Olly Todd reads from his book of poems ‘Out For Air’. Ph. Will Harmon
Yeah. I thought it was good. Last year it felt a bit much but this year it was just perfect. And then so how do you typically go about choosing the schedule for the films? I really like the curating you guys do, like this film needs to go in the cinema, this one on the open-air screen in Fažana, etc.
So for this year the first thing that we started to work on was the students from Bryggeriet. So it was a logical idea to show the movie on Brijuni Island and take the kids for a bike ride, then show their film, but also this year we it was a bit specific with locations… We had a lot of different venues; some venues fell off… But how do we curate which movie goes in each place? I think when you get the movie you know from the intro or just from the bits that you see where it could go in. For example you have… Don’t get me wrong, I don’t want to insult anybody, but you know you got some like more ghetto video format and or some crew it’s not gonna get played on the last day you know, it’s probably gonna be first day somewhere in the middle. So you need to think, how do we do it? It’s like we make a rough set list I say. And then I talk to Marco, I talk to Oleg and he’s really good because Oleg has been a little lazy the last few years on the board, but he really has a film eye, you know?
Yeah…
Oleg’s like, ‘don’t do it there; do it here, because it doesn’t it doesn’t make sense.’ You know?
Yeah.
But I think it’s really important how you curate the movies, because then you build the hype, you know? I think we have a lot of experience. It’s 12 years we’ve been doing it so there’s no like, there’s no formula, it’s just the feeling that, ‘okay this could go there’. Like when Brett hit us up to say, ‘okay
Pathways 2
is ready’ after seven years, t was like ‘okay, we need to close with this.’ We needed to close with it because that movie deserves the finale, you know?
Century-old natural transition at Fort Forno. Ph. Will Harmon
Totally.
Also, if you look at the programme this year, not a single video was online already. Well okay Mike Mag’s was, but the guy was here, all the way from Brazil, so we decided to play his movie anyways. But 99% of the films that were in the programme, were not online… So I think that’s what we aim for not having the movie too blown out… Keep it as much as possible for the festival premiere. I think what’s maybe even more important than how the movies are placed is to have them premiere at Vladimir.
I know premiering your own video of
Solsticij
must have been quite a highlight, but besides this, what have been some of your favourite moments from the festivals years past?
It’s really hard question. Highlights… It’s so much stuff. I think that I can say this: the biggest highlight for me is when you go into another venue and make it happen somewhere new. That’s the best feeling.
Fort Forno screenings in Babariga. Ph. Will Harmon
I think maybe people need to realise that every year things change around it’s not the same venues every year. It’s like every year the festival, it’s gonna be a different place… You know maybe sometimes you get Tito’s Island and like the Kino Vali cinema, but even this year, we weren’t there. So it’s always changing.
Yeah, yeah. But as in highlights… I don’t know… Like maybe 7-8 years ago, when the festival was, kind of smaller, and when you get recognition from people who are here telling you, ‘yeah, man, this is like the good path, continue your work, it’s good.’ It really meant something special to me. Like in the beginning, when you guys first started to come, you know, it was like, ‘oh man, we managed to get somebody from all the way over there to come!’ Now we’re used to that, you know, we’re used to people saying it’s amazing. And yeah, it of course it means a lot. But now we don’t have that much time for hanging out with all the people.
It’s true. It was different in 2014. Back then we’d go skating around together a lot! You and Marco were our Istrian tour guides.
Yeah. But yeah, highlights… When we did the Rick and Buddy’s show up in the castle, yeah, that was pretty surreal. It’s strange how we managed to pull that off… And the fort this year went pretty smooth, but it’s so much work.
I’m sure it is.
But my personal highlight of all of the years I would have to think really hard to say like, what that was… Because what I think what guides us to do it more or to make it happen next year is the people coming back. That’s Marco’s thing you know? Yeah. If you were here one time and then I try to invite you five more years and you like say, ‘Oh, I cannot make it this year, maybe next year you know,’ that usually just doesn’t happen. It’s like even if we don’t do any promotion for it, people know where Vladimir is. And people are coming here. So yeah, yeah, I think the highlight for me is people wanting to come back.
Daryl Dominguez, Josh Nice, Jim Silver and many more at Kasarna. Ph. Will Harmon
Well like you said earlier just having it run smoothly and work out every year must feel great. But I must mention last year, it did get a bit out of hand. And certain people, probably for the first time, weren’t invited back this year. How did you handle the fallout from that last year?
So it was set of circumstances. It was really hard to organise last year because of COVID. I mean, we got a special permit for the locations and no after parties were really allowed. Yeah. I think we were kind of mad after last year. Because some stuff happened that really… I mean actually, it was not that bad, but it was how the rumours spread… Like Patrik Wallner told me he heard that people ran into a zebra on the island last year. Yeah. So I was just afraid that you know from a fly you can create an elephant. So we were really afraid that we were going to lose the island. I remember this, but we managed to get it back. The people from Brijuni, it’s really hard to work with them because there’s all this bureaucracy and stuff. There’s new ladies working there who are young and don’t have experience… I’m really happy that this year was big, but chill.
Yeah, it didn’t get out of hand.
But I think people realise that when you when you come to Vladimir that you need to respect the place and everyone. This is not a shitshow with drinking, being naked and stuff. We don’t like that you know, but you cannot say to certain persons you cannot come here. But to have a group of people who do it in their own way and respectfully, it’s really nice. I mean, we don’t look at Vladimir as a skate event, you know, like on the yearly skate event calendar type of stuff; it’s independent. We don’t make money out of it, we don’t have big sponsors; it’s just like what we managed to create.
Zack, Keegan, Nestor and Kirill presenting ‘First Push: The Blossoming Skateboarding Scene in Pakistan’. Ph. Will Harmon
You and your friends have been big advocates for skateboarding in Istria and there are a lot of newer skateparks around since the first time I came here in 2014. You guys are involved in a lot of these projects correct?
Yeah me and my friends and our club (August Senoa) helped with the logistics and stuff of the new park right near Fažana on the way to Pula.
The one down the beach a bit with the humps?
Yeah that’s the one. The proposed skateboard park right in Fažana, it’s not moving because of problems with the land. So we kind of got over it, because it’s been going on for seven years from when we started to work on the project. We were really ambitious, but now we are mostly focused on smaller villages around Istria. There’s a few skateparks that are going to be built around Istria that our club helped out with. We go to talk to the mayors and the politicians to ensure them that this is a good project. Then we invite our company from Zagreb to come in and make the park. So our club is also working that way. Still we don’t get paid and don’t get money out of it, but we are doing it because we don’t have like a licensed company for I don’t know, advising people, but it’s the skate mentality.
Patrik Wallner exhibition in Pula. Ph. Will Harmon
DIY yeah…
Yeah because let’s say a city nearby Fažana wants to build a skatepark and they ordered some shitty park from catalogue. And so I would go to speak with the mayor the say like, ‘please don’t take this. I will bring you guys who can build you a great concrete skatepark for the same amount of money.’ So respond to us, because we are recognisable, people know what we’re doing and we have the power to say, ‘okay, this is our thing and we know how it’s supposed to be done.’ So people listen to us. So that’s good. So we have an impact to get more skateparks made in Istria because we are doing Vladimir, obviously.
I know sadly you got COVID here midway through the festival, but then I mean, this one went really well like you said earlier. Marco took the reins emceeing and so here on the last day are you pretty happy with how everything went?
Somewhere in my mind I was prepared that I could catch something because I was so tired. The festival is so big, with so many authors, so many emails, so many people… Between my family obligations, my full time work and Vladimir it was just too much for me and I cracked: I got COVID. I’m not depressed and stuff just like ‘okay, it is what it is’ but I’m happy that we had really good crew this year. A lot of us worked really well: Elvis, Oleg, Marco, Tibor, Iris, Marina; everybody really, really did a good job and Vladimir can go on without me guys. So maybe this is this was my last year…
Marco Zubak: Nooo!
(Everyone laughs)
Raw punk hc Cagliari played. Ph. Will Harmon
Nikola: No, no, no, I’m joking. I never got this feeling you know, because it’s so strange… Friday lying down with the fever and Sunday I wasn’t there. So I’m still feeling a bit sick, but I’m really happy for my friends. You know?
Yeah, well we had a good Facetime with you on Sunday night…
Yes! I think this year shows that the spirit is still alive.
Yeah for sure…
And the momentum is still going up, ascending, which is crazy.
So we’ll be seeing you next year?
Yeah, yeah, of course.
There was moshing too. Ph. Mikey Patrick
Is there anything you want people to know that maybe haven’t been? Or is there any help you need? Or do you need volunteers or anything? Or like, I don’t know, is there anything you could use more of?
It would be really amazing to have more time to prepare everything. I mean Vladimir seems like a really organised event, it is, but it’s really, really hard making it. This year was really free jazz: we improvised almost every night.
Marco: It’s because we depend on others. Yeah we don’t own a place with land where we can do it, so we have to ask permission. The people say, ‘yeah’, and then at the last minute the say, ‘Oh, no, we can’t do it.’
Nikola Racan FaceTiming in from quarantine to Marco and Marina. Ph. Will Harmon
So you’re left scrambling…
Marco: So this is the problem when you have others to depend on. Vladimir is too big to do it in one place, so we have to have it all around.
Nikola: Because how it all started with the locations was when we lost our DIY factories… So we thought: ‘okay, it’s gonna be too boring to sit in Fažana for two days staring at the same wall watching films’, so we had to expand, you know? We don’t even have to invite people like, ‘come to Vladimir, please come.’ I think people said it themselves: they just come. I think we made something that’s… I don’t know, it’s really hard to describe it… For now we still have the passion and love and that’s what we will need if this stuff wants to continue going. So far we are having it and we didn’t crack. Nobody has.
Marco: We’re still functioning together. Yeah no fights… And I think it needs to be like this to stay like this. I think if money gets in or something else, then the motivation changes, but it hasn’t, so I think this is why it works.
Brett Nichols introduces Pathways 2. Ph. Mikey Patrick
Yeah I see.
Nikola: I think what’s maybe interesting to say is, okay last year, and this is my personal experience, but I felt that in our organisation something was not going super well. And I think we all realised what was going on was something that was not so good, which is normal. And this year, if I could show you a picture how Vladimir looked two weeks ago we were on the edge; it was not going good. A lot of us had our own shit to do, we were tired, exhausted, Oleg did the 100 projects, Filip was fucked up, Marco was away; it was not functioning. Iris was saying to me. ‘Nikola this is not good.’ And suddenly, when the festival started, it changed. Really that’s the highlight of the year that we managed the to make it blossom, you know? Two weeks ago was fucked up and it was all that stuff that was not clear between us from last year. You could feel the pressure and tempers from last year, but this year it all worked out and it went super smooth. I don’t know if it was a sign from God, but it went really well.
Yeah, I think everyone had a great time and no smashed golf carts this year.
Yeah, the zebras are alive, ha ha.
Did I mention Fažana has the best sunsets? Ph. Will Harmon

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 13, 2023
The Wonderful Adventures of Sarah Meurle
Backside tailslide, Los Angeles. Ph. Kyle Seidler
In the fairy-tale book ‘
The Wonderful Adventures of Nils
’, Swedish school children get to learn about geography. It was written in 1906 by Nobel Prize Winner Selma Lagerlöw. By following Nils Holgersson riding on a goose’s
back through Sweden pupils were taught about the country and its regions. Nils’ journey, much like Sarah Meurle’s, started in the countryside in the South of Sweden, far away from the big city and the urban possibilities to skate.
Sarah built a ramp in her barn to get her first tricks dialled. Nils flew on a goose’s back as a small kid. For Sarah it was well into her high school years that she first got on a plane to leave the country. Until then her travelling was limited to car rides with the family. Her first journey on a plane, at age 17, was a filming trip to Barcelona.
Since then, Sarah has done laps around the globe and established herself as one of the international Swedish OG’s.
As the first student from Bryggeriets Gymnasium to turn pro she was the first to pave the way and was later followed by Heitor Da Silva, Oski, Deedz, Simon Isaksson and Ville Wester to name a few.
But skateboarding has never been her only passion. Along with her pro career she has also fit in both education as well as loads of photography work along with curating exhibitions, guest editing magazines and other creative endeavours. The list is long and so is Sarah’s longevity in skateboarding. Sometimes you see her and sometimes you don’t, but Sarah is in it for the long haul.
This piece was written between trips filming for a new WKND video going from Malmö to Atlanta and then to Palm Beach. Sarah is hard to pin down so we had to take help from her friends for this interview. Spread over the world friends, colleagues and fans got to write questions for her. This is an attempt to catch part of the wonderful adventures of Sarah Meurle.
Next time you look up into the sky and see a goose, look closely, Sarah might be on its back on her way to yet another adventure. –John Dahlquist
Nicole Hause: What advice would you give your 25-year-old self, knowing what you know now?
Sarah Meurle: To go to Uni was a great idea, I’m really glad I have that experience with me. Don’t stay in relationships if they aren’t the best for you. Check in with yourself more often, go to therapy ASAP to get some good tricks and tools and follow your own route.
Will Harmon: I know you attended the first year of
Bryggeriets Gymnasium
. What was your parent’s attitude towards your choice of school? And how has the school changed since you attended?
They were supportive, I was so into skating and when the school opened up it felt like an obvious choice. I also loved the idea of having a reason to escape the small town where I’m from and go to high school in Malmö. It’s pretty insane to open up anything from scratch – especially a school, and the first couple of years are most likely not gonna be the best ones. The downsides weren’t with the skate program, but the fact that there was no reputation yet so the non-skate students, the ones who were studying media (about half the class), seemed like they just ended up going there with no motivation and that created rowdy classrooms. You would probably expect the opposite but the skaters were actually the ‘good’ students.
Boardslide pop-over, Los Angeles. Ph. Kyle Seidler
I felt lucky as I could have more of an understanding for travels and being away from school a lot the last year I went there. And the skate classes, plus the fact that we always had access to the skatepark, was amazing. A big difference with Bryggeriets today is that the school is famous now. It’s well known all over the skate world and it holds a lot more power and opportunities for the students now than it did back then, which is very cool.
Andrew Considine­: So I’m assuming you had straight A’s in skate school, but where did you flop? What were your flaws?
I thought I had to study so hard when I was in 9th grade to get into a good school, someone really must have tricked me. So when I actually came to the skate high school everything was easy. I had always thought I was shit at maths but turns out I just didn’t understand the teacher and when I got a new one in Malmö she helped me figure it out. I think I was definitely sleeping in history class though; that one is interesting now when I’m older but I didn’t get it then. If you could put a grade on my switch flips I would really flop.
John Dahlquist: What is it like to balance skateboarding with photography work?
I juggle it in between trips, when I’m at home I have more time for photography. When I travel I shoot a lot but I usually prefer experiencing where I’m at in the moment and edit and work on photos when I’m home. I’ve definitely put skateboarding first these past two years and the time I’ve put into photography has been less, but it still has evolved more lately probably because I’ve been doing it for a long time.
Filip Almqvist: How do you manage to check in three bags on every tour, be so organised as a person, yet so unorganised with your stuff?
My brain definitely operates in some sort of organised chaos. To me it makes sense to bring everything I might possibly need on a session, so things have gotten out of hand a bit lately when we’re in LA ‘cause we basically jump in Grant’s car and stay out all day, so optional shoes are a must, any cameras I wanna shoot with, etc. I can’t just bike home and grab another sweater or go grab a jacket. All things must come. They’re not necessarily unorganised though, I know it’s insane but I do know where I keep everything and maybe that’s what it looks like inside my head as well.
It does disturb me that I just can’t choose to pack like two pairs of pants and some white tees and be fine with that. I love having options.
Heelflip, Los Angeles. Ph. Alex Papke
Nils Svensson: In your opinion, what is a good photograph?
If I develop a roll and get excited about let’s say three out of 16 images, they are usually the ones that surprise me in some way: when a mistake is added to the equation, when the light hits just right, or if there’s something in the image I didn’t even realise while I was shooting it. There is no certain formula, but if the image can tell a story and make you think or feel in some type of way it’s doing something right.
Danijel ‘Jugga’ Stankovic: What was it like to film for the first ever all girls skate video
Gizmo
?
It was a new experience for me to get treated like a priority and having the support to film for a part in that kind of way. Being in a big production like that gave me a lot of motivation to try a bit harder. I was also tripping on being on trips with Elissa (Steamer), ‘cause she is the most legendary person ever.
Love Öhling: What are your long term career goals for skating? What is your dream project to work on?
I’m not really a career person in the way that I have a plan set out ahead of me. Perhaps I would for the next six months, but not for the next 10 years. Things I do are often opportunities I’ve thought through, that give me a good gut feeling, that lead me somewhere and I’ll give it my all and then take it from there. In skating I have goals to put out parts and contribute to the skate scene in different ways – for photography I have dreams to publish books and have exhibitions connected to them.
Makke Bengtsson: You have been struggling with a foot problem for a long time. What do you do to keep yourself skateable fitness wise?
Yeah the ankle keeps haunting me, I actually just rolled it again two days ago but it’s almost as if it’s so worn out that it’s not that noticeable.
I do a lot of ankle rehab exercises, with elastic bands, toe lifts and so on. This winter I started taking foot baths. Hot & Cold. I massage it and I skate with an ankle guard. I also started training just my big toes since they need extra strength – fully looks like I’m Uma Thurman in
Kill Bill
just wiggling my toes back and forth. Rehab training is extremely boring!! Besides the ankle, I have a workout routine I do which is a mix of moves I learnt from physiotherapists and yoga classes.
Arin Lester: As a skateboarder and photographer who sees yourself in magazines both behind and in front of the lens, how does that feel?
Right now I’m equally as excited if I get a photo published, whether I’m in it or behind it. If you shoot a good photo it basically feels as if you’ve landed a good trick as well.
Pole-jam, West Palm Beach. Ph. Joel Meinholz
Samantha Narvaez: What are some of your funniest memories from your recent travels?
The Australia trip with Nike SB was a constant haze of laughter… One day I got the fake birthday surprise at a Thai restaurant in Sydney. The staff came in singing with ice cream, balloons and everything, even a gift from the staff. I had to pretend like it was really my birthday and ended up carrying these balloons with me for the rest of the night. Flynn said they chose me because I’m silly.
This Hyperion Dist trip (WKND, Rassvet) I’ve just been on to West Palm Beach/ Miami ended up with us laughing to tears in the car because Andrew (Considine) said I would go into Goblin mode, which doesn’t make any sense at all but somehow it ended up being really funny 10 days deep when you’ve just been making fun of each other the whole time. Pat (Franklin) made up a new way for the pronunciation of Copenhagen and whenever he said it I couldn’t not laugh. No matter how smart you were prior to being on a skate trip it definitely simplifies things during that time period in a lovely way.
Tom Karangelov: What inspired your trick selection? I’m thinking about tricks like pole-jams, wallies,
noseslide combos…
I think I was quite influenced growing up with having Pontus Alv around. I always secretly admired what he did: the wallrides, pole-jams and skating interesting spots… But the ones who really took me in were the Streetlab team. I looked up to Danijel Stankovic, who is now like another older brother to me, so much. He’s more of a flip and pop god and I really admire that as well. Noseslide combos came later, it was something I realised I could do like five years ago and then just kept on doing it from there. I do remember this one local Malmö skate vid I had on DVD, which me and my friend Jakob would watch every day when we were fifteen, and this OG Malmö skater known as Kingen does a noseslide to crooks or maybe even crooks to noseslide and I was always really curious how that worked. Guess I finally found out!
Grant Yansura: What do you like about the US and what don’t you like about the US?
I think American culture is interesting, fun and familiar, so in a way I feel really at home in that. It feels like a very social and outgoing environment to be in compared to the more withdrawn Swedish style. I think it’s good for me to be in.
On a more negative note though is that the political system and the welfare clearly is not working out. Seeing that take shape in forms of poverty versus wealth is really sad; don’t like that. Also guns are scary.
360 flip to fakie, West Palm Beach. Ph. Joel Meinholz
Py Nilsson: Who are the most important people in your life?
Many of my close friends are spread out, since I’ve lived in different cities. I keep visiting these places or they visit me. It’s nice to be back in Malmö now because that skate scene is also what I grew up in. My parents and my two older brothers… My grandma who passed away a couple of years ago was the GOAT, it always warms my heart to think about her.
Alana Paterson: What is your greatest accomplishment? What do you hope to still accomplish?
I’m not sure if I have one thing in particular like that, but looking back at a really shy teenage girl who went through some tough late teens and grabbed a hold of skating as a way out in the world is something I’m really proud of.
Ah so much to do, so many things to accomplish… But I think it’s more important to live a good life and spend it with people you love, so that is my priority and main wish to accomplish in life.
Ryan Lay: You are kind of an interdisciplinary boss who seems to excel in more than a handful of things beyond just skating. I am curious if at any point in your career you were just purely a skate rat and if that was healthy for you or if you find that you have more of a balance juggling different passions?
I think I was that skate rat kid in the beginning when skating was new to me, from like 13-16. Like a relationship, for the first three years you’re really in love with it and it’s all you can think about then it evolves into something more solid but less obsessive. Having ankle injuries and not being able to skate early on taught me that I couldn’t rely just on doing that. Maybe I would’ve done more if I could have… Taking photos became important to me. I think I really realised though when I graduated high school and moved to Barcelona to just try and skate as much as I could, even though I wasn’t making any real money off it (I had some money saved up from a contest or two). After three months of living that skate life I felt unfulfilled and uninspired. I definitely need a balance of doing other things as well and exploring art through photography helped me find new ways to approach life and expand my worldview a bit.
Working a full-time job and skating on the side was also a good motivation to actually have less time to do it so when I did I was on it. But it also took a lot of energy. When I first got on Nike I was studying full-time so sometimes it was hard when it came to travel. There’s a fine balance, nowadays I feel like I’m skating more than I have been the past ten years. And I’m really motivated: it comes down to having people around that inspire me and make it fun. For me right now I think 70% skateboarding and 30% other things is a good equation.
Wallie, Malmö. Ph. Nils Svensson
Pat Franklin: How has finding more mainstream success later in your career affected your experience within the industry? Was that validation always important in continuing to pursue skateboarding as an occupation?
I think it’s so sick and really amazing it almost brings me to tears when I now see non normative skaters becoming represented in the big magazines, having ads and are on the teams of larger brands. Because I’ve seen these skaters and known about them before all of this and it’s definitely motivating to be a part of that change and see myself in there as well.
I was ready to do what I’m doing now when I was 18 but the industry wasn’t ready for it. To not be bummed about that and instead to enjoy the support and opportunities I’m given now is the way I like to look at it. To answer the question, I pursued it for so long without having that validation, so yeah, I think I’d be doing it, but definitely would not be able to go all in on it and would probably have been more like 70% photography and 30% skateboarding.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 17, 2025
Jaakko Ojanen – It’s Better?
Words by Max Olijnyk
“There are a few skaters you need to see in real life to see the magic: he’s one of them. He’s special. There’s only a few like him, it’s crazy. Like yesterday he did some really fucked-up shit. I was just like, how?” says Phil Zwijsen, who has been around the Jaakko magic for over a decade now at Element; first as a teammate and now as team manager and friend.
Along with other big-brained peers such as Gustav Tønnesen, Ishod Wair and Mark Suciu (and with a nod to the originators – Gonz, Blender et.al), Jaakko Ojanen manages to combine every adjective we use to categorise skateboarding (technical, stylish, gnarly…), but with an inventive, playful approach underpinning the whole thing.
Crooked grind pop-out, Paris. Ph. Clément Le Gall
When I spoke to Jaakko in February, he was nearing the end of a quick rest-stop at home in Tampere, Finland before heading off on another filming trip. After a slightly quiet couple of years following the mass-exodus from the DC team, 2025 is looking pretty busy for the 30-year-old, with two parts in the works for Element and Asics. He credits joining the Asics squad with igniting “a new spark,” but says he was in no rush to find a new shoe sponsor.
“I didn’t really care; I was kinda glad it (DC) was over in a sense. It had been so long skating in the same shoes. I didn’t want to stress about it; I wanted to turn it into a positive thing. I talked to Kaspar about getting on Asics for almost a year, we took it pretty slowly. I didn’t want to stress about it and go somewhere I didn’t feel comfortable or happy with, so I took my time. It worked, I’m happy.”
Nollie shove-it to fakie 5-0 (yep fakie 5-0!), Paris. Ph. Clément Le Gall
Kaspar is Kaspar Van Lierop, a Dutch ex-pro skater turned industry insider who now lives in Portland, Oregon. After a long stint at Nike, Kaspar started his own skate consultancy service, KVL Connect, which functions as a sort of medium between mainstream brands who want to get involved with skate-boarding (his client list includes Off White, HBO and StockX, to name a few), to ensure the relationship is mutually beneficial and avoids the dreaded ‘greetings, fellow kids’ effect.
KVL Connect started working with Asics in 2022 after the brand had already launched a skateboarding division in Japan. Spotting potential, Kaspar approached the brand and began working on market research, product feed-back and some strategy for what the skate team could look like. Together with creative director Jake Gascoyne, he began recruiting a team ahead of the brand’s global launch in 2023. Two years on, aided by an eclectic squad, some strange ads (and fittingly strange videos by Jacob Harris), Asics has slotted into the landscape quite nicely. Jaakko is the most recent addition to the team.
Backside nosegrind pop-out, Paris. Ph. Clément Le Gall
“My whole thing with Asics was: let’s look for skaters who are different. You have an Akwasi, you have an Emile… there’s no one like them, they’re so unique. Same for Jaakko. I’ve been seeing him skate for a long time and when a guy like that has no shoe deal, I’m like wait a minute, you know?” says Kaspar.
“I don’t want to label him as ‘well-rounded’ or a ‘creative skater’ because these days there’s a lot of those. To me he’s more
unexpected
. He’s not a gimmicky skater who always tries to do something forcefully that people will trip out on.”
The photos that accompany this article are mostly derived from a trip to Paris, with a short detour through Berlin. True to form, there’s something awkward, obscure or surprising about every trick – he’s sliding across the middle of an electrical box, his board is broken, it was raining, there’s a pole in the way. Jaakko’s favourite of the selection is a 360 flip shot in Paris, which upon first glance is relatively ‘normal’.
360 flip, Paris. Ph. Clément Le Gall
“I never really break my boards, especially on the nose, but it just snapped on one of the tries. Then I was like, ‘I want to do it with this board.’ It was kinda a hectic spot with a lot of traffic and shit, so I was in this weird state where I was just trying. It was pretty fun, though. I don’t know if you see the broken board in the clip. I think I did it twice – once before I broke the board and one after. It’s pretty cool; I like that.”
This is an insight into what motivates Jaakko – and a good reminder of how different his experience is to the rest of us mere mortals (though, in my case, you could compare osteoarthritis to a broken board) – it’s the factors out of his control that makes things interesting.
“It’s been so long that I’ve skated like this, kind of looking for spots, that it’s expanded a bit now. I see different things, some things that are not there right away. Sometimes they need a little bit of something to make it work; it’s not a perfect spot right away, it’s not even a spot right away. But you can make it a spot, you can open it up.”
Backside nosebluntslide, Berlin. Ph. Joel Peck
In terms of what to expect from the new parts, his TM is confident this could be some of Jaakko’s best work.
“The way he skates has evolved; he’s on the best of it now,” says Phil. “He may not think that, because before he was jumping and stuff, but I think he really found his way of skating now – which is maybe less impact but more impactful.”
On his own behalf, Jaakko is excited to have a full year of travel ahead of him, including two of his favourite destinations in Japan and New York. But in terms of a trick or spot list, he prefers not to plan ahead.
“I can’t really think of a spot and be like, ‘I’m going to do this there’, it doesn’t work like that for me. Usually the best thing comes if I just go skating. Not everything works but most of the time you get the idea at the spot. You have to skate it for a little bit and then you have this idea; that’s how it works for me the best.”
“For Jaakko, we just go to spots and let his mind go,” Phil continues. “That’s the best way for him. If I could skate like anyone it would be him or Eetu (Toropainen) because they’re both so spontaneous. It’s not about tricks because they can do them all, that’s the thing. It’s not about the trick, it’s about – my board can go like
this
or go like
this
– it’s so fascinating to watch him skate.”
Ph. Alex Papke

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 18, 2015
Josh Roberts Domingo II interview
Josh Roberts. Photo by Casey Foley
On the heels of Domingo II’s release we spoke to Western Australian VX wielder Josh Roberts about his latest film. Josh talked to us about  how he started filming, his European travels, worldwide connections, why he hates Limestone, and what he has planned next among other things. Josh was also kind enough to share with us the Domingo II intro and Alex Campbell’s part. Nice one Josh!
Interview by Will Harmon
Will: Can you tell us how you came up with the title Domingo?
Josh: So when I was working on the first one, a few years ago, the homie Liu Puli was around and he suggested it. I thought it sounds sick and we worked out the meaning, Domingo means Sunday in Spanish, and I sat on that for a minute and then I just decided I liked the sound of it and it fit.
Yeah and when I was there in Perth we all met up and went skating the city on a Sunday… Is that something you guys have been doing for a long time?
Well most of us work jobs and shit and we work most of the week… We skate a bit during weeknights for sure, but Sunday is the day that everyone can meet up and skate. That’s the day everyone can make it.
Intro and Alex Campbell’s part from Domingo II by Josh Roberts
So tell us about Domingo II, how is it set up? Is it similar to
the first one
?
Yeah there are some parts in this one. It ended up being a way bigger project than I originally envisioned. There are parts, but I tried to make it so it flows on really well and it doesn’t really stop. Certain dudes have a bunch of footage so I kind of gotta show that. I’ve tried to do it differently though. It’s like an extension of the first one, but it’s been a few years since that and I’ve obviously… Well my style I think it’s changing slowly as I’m always trying to do new shit or whatever. So it’s the same as the first one, but very different if that makes sense. This one’s twice as long. I tried to make it flow and incorporate in a lot of Super-8 film because I want to show that. I wanted to set it apart a bit if I can from a normal skate video if possible.
Going back a little, when did you start filming people riding skateboards?
I got into skating at age 13, so not as early as other people. My friends were skating and I thought it looked sick so I decided to get a board and then I went skating with them. Since then I’ve never looked back. And so my parents had this old video camera, I can’t remember the kind, but it took an entire VHS tape in the camera. And then there was a small tape inside the VHS tape you know what I mean?
I think I might remember those…
So were editing old school style like filming a trick and if they didn’t make it, we’d rewind it and keep filming and editing as we went on until someone made the trick. It’s insane doing it that way thinking back on it, but my brother and I and a friend from around the corner would film like this. I just kept doing this and then I got more into filming.
The Domingo crew. Photo by James Whineray
So did you make a full video? Or is there a first video you made?
I made a bunch of them, but I’m not psyched on them you know! (Laughs) But yeah, I filmed one on our first DV camera and made some edits or whatever and just filmed with friends. A bunch of them, like Nick Boserio and Harry Clark they were in out original crew. It’s sick to see
Nick
make it so far; he’s a big pro now. But yeah we just filmed whatever and then I got a VX1000, as I had looked it up researching on
Skate Perception
and whatnot. And then I tried to figure out what was good in filming. I watched all the Transworld videos. I think the first VHS skate video I ever owned was Cliché’s
Europa
. Or wait, maybe it was Blueprint’s
Waiting for the World
, and then I got
Europa
second. But anyways, I’d always watch those two videos. So what was the question again?
I dunno we’ve gone off on a tangent. I guess how you got into filming…
Yeah so things just evolved slowly. So I got the VX and started messing with it. There were a few local dudes that were older than me and they helped me out every now and then. I was just some stupid kid, but I had an idea of what I liked. I really liked Josh Stewart’s
Static
videos. I didn’t know what it was at the time, but I just really liked the style of those videos. So I didn’t wanna bite what he was doing, but I wanted my style of videos to feel like how those vids were.
The old iphone VX capturing trick. Ph. James Whineray
Ok so we’ve heard about the Magenta connection forming from the intro of
Crossing the Perth Dimension
. But since then, have you made more worldwide connections?
Yeah so I filmed
Crossing the Perth Dimension
after the first
Domingo
. After
Crossing
I wanted to start working on a follow up for
Domingo 1
, and then Leo (Valls) was back living in SF so he said I should come out there. So eventually I got a ticket and went out there to skate. So I kicked it with Leo and all the crew out there and it was sick and then that ended up being the first footage I got for
Domingo II
.
And then after getting that SF footage, did you feel you had to expand and film for
Domingo II
in more places than Perth?
Yeah kinda. I mean I never really had the vision sorted out before I started, I just knew I wanted to do a new vid. So it developed organically. I went to SF so it just worked out that that was going to be in the video. But saying that, I knew it was going to be hard to incorporate footage from SF into a video with mainly Perth footage so I had to work things out. I wanted to film a part with Morgan (Campbell) who lives in Melbourne. I told him I wanted him to be in the video and since we are good mates he was of course down. So I went over there and filmed with him and a bunch of the homies I knew over there so I had a little zone going on with the Perth dudes and the Melbourne dudes. So I just put all that in together and that’s how the video came to be.
They are certain people who visibly outperform others when filming with the VX1000. I would put you in this category. Who are some fellow VX wielders you admire?
The two main ones that I think are way above everybody are Zach Chamberlain and Yoan Taillandier. Those two are the best in the world in my opinion. I always get psyched seeing their stuff. I’m really good friends with Zach and I got to see him recently in SF and we got to kick it. And I broke his camera kind of… I feel bad. (Laughs) I’m psyched on what Quentin (Guthrie) was doing in Perth too; he was holding the scene down. And Ryan Garshell, he’s doing the GX thing, which is sick. I like seeing his stuff. And of course I’ve always liked Josh’s (Stewart) stuff. He had the weird crazy filming style, but it was cool because it was really original. No one else films like that. He didn’t frame stuff all the way and he chopped stuff off, but it was his style and he pretty much created this whole thing I think.
Yeah I would agree…
I mean there was Dan Wolfe, but for VX1000 Josh was the guy I was into from the beginning. So I would say from a history point of view, Josh then Yoan and Zach are my favourites.
James Whineray, 50-50 in Sydney. Photo by Leigh Barlow
Didn’t all your camera stuff get robbed last year? What happened?
So my girlfriend was in Iran for a month visiting her family and the day she was coming back I went to the airport to pick her up. My housemate was home asleep in his bed and I was gone for like an hour and in that time someone had come in the back door. I didn’t lock the back door because I knew my mate was at home, but I didn’t know he was asleep. Anyways, I knew he had to go to work real soon so I thought I didn’t need to do anything, he’d handle it. So after I got back from the airport I walked into my room and something didn’t seem right. I looked around and could tell shit was missing. So I finally figured out what was gone and it was all stuff from my bedroom and nothing else. I felt like someone had been watching the house because the timing was way too perfect. Steve, my housemate, said that his alarm went off so he could get ready for work and when it did he heard some noise – but he just thought it was us as he was half asleep.
So what they did was put all the gear in our rubbish bin and wheeled it off. They stole all my filming stuff, my computer – it sucked.
Brutal…
And then James (Whineray) hit me up to go skating and I was like: “Dude… My setup is gone; my house has been robbed.” He was like ‘fuck!’ and bummed. So probably a day or two later I see this kickstarter thing pop up for people to help me out.
Who started that?
James Whineray. I was just blown away. I was like ‘ah I don’t wanna take people’s money…’ but there was a lot of support there and people handled it for me and I got a camera and my shit back together again so it was awesome. It was so amazing to see people show love on that level. It made me feel good and maybe that shows that people appreciate what I do I guess. To see people give me their own money to get back up and running again is incredible. I didn’t expect anything, so it was nice to receive the support.
Photo by James Whineray
Can you tell us if you have any special rules about filming? Things you will not film, etc.?
Limestone!
(Laughs)
What do you got against Limestone?
Ok in Perth there is tons of limestone. There’s big ass bricks of limestone that are huge or whatever…
I don’t even really know what limestone is… I might need to Google it.
Yeah look it up, it’s a certain mineral. It’s yellowy-white and it just looks fucking ugly dude. And it’s usually on buildings in the outer suburbs…
So not really in the city?
Yeah. In general I think it looks like shit, in footage I don’t want to see that, and I don’t know man, it’s just no good. It makes me think of everything super far out and I never wanna skate out there.
So do you shut down people who want to film a trick at a spot where there’s limestone?
A bit. Yeah I do. It gets blown out of proportion a bit, but I have.
Anything else you don’t want to film?
Ah just the Perth suburbs. I don’t like filming out there, so many houses and too much grass. I want to film stuff that looks exciting and it’s definitely not exciting out there. Aesthetically it looks like nothing. There’s no point in filming out there.
Josh super-8ing. Ph. Casey Foley
Ok. Would you ever film HD?
I don’t really want to; I don’t have the desire to right now. I don’t think it looks good for skateboarding really. I like VX and everything about it. Everyone’s said it all before… You can film it properly, you can be close, and you’re like in the trick when the person is skating you know?
Yeah…
Whereas HD you’re further away, the fisheye sucks, the rig is heavy as shit… It’s definitely not as good in my opinion. I would only use it if I were filming a documentary. I would consider it for that. Chris Mulhern does it sick and Josh (Stewart) has done it, but generally with non-skating stuff. But I just don’t want to use it for skating at all.
Alex Campbell threads the needle with a backside lipslide whilst Josh captures. Ph. James Whineray
So can you fill us in on what you’ve been up to in the past month since your first
Domingo II
premiere in Perth?
Yeah a month ago I flew over to Bordeaux and met Leo (Valls). And then the idea was to work on a Domingo France type thing with the crew out there. And we did exactly that pretty much.
And then I know you guys were supposed to make it to the
Vladimir Skate Film Festival
in Croatia, what happened there? How come you didn’t make it?
Oh man that’s a long story I’d rather not get into. Made it as far as the Italian border driving from France, but to keep a long story short: we had car trouble.
Well you missed a good time in Croatia!
Yeah I know, I was super bummed, but what are you gonna do? I guess it just wasn’t meant to happen for me.
So you went back to Marseille and filmed there?
Yeah Marseille is amazing for skating. The city is awesome.
James Whineray, frontside half cab noseslide, as seen in Domingo II. Photo by Leigh Barlow
And then after that I saw on Instagram that you were in Milan with the Chef Family…
Yeah Leo and I discussed going there to do a project for Benjamin at
Live Skateboard Media
. So we talked Benjamin and Adidas helped out and we got it all rolling and went to Milan. So we hooked up with the
Chef Family
guys, super nice dudes by the way, and we skated all around the Milano Centrale plaza. That spot is huge – it’s like a Love Park spot or something. There’s all types of people there: ghetto hood bums, tourists, skaters, everything. So Leo and I were trying to show the plaza in a different way and skate more of it than just the popular bits. A lot of it doesn’t get skated, it’s a huge plaza and people mainly skate the main ledge and the grate gap across the road. So we tried to skate a lot more of the plaza and show what it really has.
Cool I’m looking forward to seeing that.
Yeah so I filmed Leo, the Chef crew, because they really hold it down there, and Seb Daurel came to meet us too.
So you’re back in Aus now what are you up to?
I need to do a lot of editing and logging footy. I had a mean jetlag.
So is this what you are going to do next make some smaller edits?
Yeah, I need to make the edit for Live and then a separate French edit that I think I’m calling ‘Dimanche’, the French word for Sunday. That’s for the Bordeaux and Marseille footage. It’s gonna be online like a web thing. I’m gonna keep it rolling with a few web things or a web series for a little while. I haven’t quite figured it out, but that’s the idea.
Nice…
I have a few ideas; I want to keep the Domingo stuff moving. I need to change it up a bit… I want to try and help people go places with me and film. If I can contribute or pay some that would be ideal. If I could get a random crew of people I know, and someone always from Perth, or homies from Europe or America or whoever is available at the time to get together and film an edit for a couple weeks in a different city. That’s what I need to do to make it interesting for myself and keep things rolling. It’s hard now in Perth, we’ve rinsed it.
How do you make ends meet? Does filming skateboarding pay the bills?
No man, that shit never pays the bills. (Laughs) I already accepted the fact a long time ago that I wasn’t going to make a living doing this… Because when you are a kid you have these grand ideas and then you go ‘oh, this is the reality of what’s really happening.’ I have friends that are older and we all still do it for the same reasons. They’re still skating; I’m skating and filming; they’re all doing their jobs and I’m doing my job and then we all meet up and skate. I just manage the local skate shop (Beyond). I keep things running smoothly there and I film when I can.
Well you are in all this for the right reasons then…
Yeah your tastes change and stuff, but I really need that stuff to be around me to keep me stoked or else I kinda get bummed on skating. I work in the shop and it can really get you in a weird place with skating being around it so much and watching every shit thing that comes out. But there was nothing but good vibes and good feelings out there in Bordeaux and on my Europe trip so it got me stoked on skating. I don’t care if I’m not making money, because I’ve gone on this long without making money and I don’t care. I just do it because I’m into it and I love doing it. It’s just the best shit; nothing’s quite like it right?
Yeah nothing else compares. Thanks Josh.
Support underground skateboarding. Buy the Domingo II Dvd:
France
,
UK
,
Europe
,
Australia
,
USA
,
Japan
.
Josh films Alex Campbell. Photo by Casey Foley

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  October 26, 2021
Chewy & Morph
Chewy Cannon, switch wallie. Photo: Rafal Wojnowski.
Transcribing interviews is generally a fairly joyless task.
No matter how much fun you may have had conducting an interview, sitting there after the fact with headphones on and your fingers hovering over the rewind button in an earnest attempt to give shape to a meandering conversation is basically peak. The one possible positive that this slow motion trudge towards the finish line offers is an opportunity to consider whether or not there’s any inkling of a unifying theme running through the spoken words that you’re typing up. I found myself engaging in this very same internal monologue as I sat in my dining room typing the interview below. Arthur’s brief was pretty loose and my approach probably even looser, which, at the point of transcription, left me wondering what exactly this three-way conversation was about.
Is it three friends who’ve known each other for over twenty years catching up and chatting shit? Maybe it’s two of the people instrumental in helping Palace ascend to its current status as one of the world’s biggest skateboard brands lifting the curtains slightly and giving us a glimpse of the machinery?
Equally, it could be a cautionary tale about how the untrammelled freedom of the skateboard life can create conditions for addiction, incarceration and regret if you’re not careful. As the recording neared its end and my back pain began to approach Dadsnet levels, it struck me that ultimately, the conversation below might really be concerned with the importance of friendship and loyalty and about the ways in which those two noble virtues can offer redemption to anyone, regardless of the circumstances.
Looking back at it, I’m still not sure whether the underlying theme of this Chewy Cannon and Dane ‘Morph’ Crook interview is the latter, or a combination of every suggested possibility above. Either way, it was a great deal of fun to talk to them both and, if nothing else, served as a reminder that true friendship is shatterproof.
Enjoy…
Interview by Ben Powell
Are you still ill Chewy?
Chewy: Yeah, I’m sat here trying to eat my dinner but I still can’t swallow, it’s annoying…
I think ‘annoying’ is probably playing it down judging on what you were saying the other day.
Chewy: Yeah it’s been pretty horrid. I’m having to numb my throat with Lockets and Soothers and shit before I eat so that I can take the pain of swallowing but then that means that all I can fucking taste is honey Lockets when I’m trying to eat my bangers and mash.
It’s never that easy to gauge how bad people are feeling through DMs but when you told Morph and I that, ‘it was so bad that you’d not smoked weed for three days’ we knew it wasn’t good. What’s wrong?
Chewy: I’ve got tonsillitis and it’s spread to my ear and my eye through my sinuses. I’ve been dying honestly. You and Morph knew it was bad when I said that though eh?
Morph: Yeah mate, no weed? Come on…
Chewy: I couldn’t do it. For me three days without smoking is pretty much an eternity, (laughing). It’s definitely the longest time I’ve gone without in a long time, but on a positive note, I’ve saved a shit ton of money. Gotta look for the positives…
Aside from the tonsillitis, you’re injured Chewy – what’s wrong with you?
Chewy: Oh mate, get ready for a sob story. I’ve done my MCL and my ACL haven’t I? Jumping off the back of a plane…
How did you end up skating a plane?
Chewy: We were in Liverpool on a trip a little while back, myself, Louie Jones, and Kingy (Stephen King – former Document mag photographer) took us to a few spots. One of these ended up being a deserted airfield, full of abandoned planes. I was bang on it, up on the planes, like, ‘I’m on it here; I’ll be sound’ but I wasn’t sound. I rolled off one of the wings and my knee just popped. We called an ambulance and were told that they wouldn’t be able to come and get me for seven hours. Grim man. Kingy made me a splint out of some bits of 2×4 that he found at the spot and then taped it all together. It was fucked…
Have you started the recovery process?
Chewy: Yeah, phsyio and all that, home gym every day with the kettle weights and the wobble board and what have you. I’m going to be out ‘til around April of next year, which is peak, but what can I do?
When I spoke to you the other day you said that all you were doing was rehab and watching the Olympics, is that both of you?
Chewy: Yeah man, I’ve watched bits of it. The gymnastics mate, that’s crazy…
Morph: Yeah they bang.
Chewy: And the horse thing, what is it? Dressage?
Morph: Yeah I scrolled through and watched a bit of the Dressage the other day too…
To be fair boys, whenever I think of Chewy and Morph, one of the first things that comes to mind is Dressage.
(Everyone laughing).
Morph: I was with Big Ash (Ashura Parchment) the other day skating and all of a sudden he just stopped in the road and goes, ‘Bro, I need to get a fucking horse man.’ Like fully serious, (laughs). Definitely the last person I ever expected to hear that from. ‘Just imagine it bro, rolling up to the spot on a horse…’
Morph, 360 flip hippie jump. Photo: Rafal Wojnowski.
This interview is supposed to be about your friendship so it makes sense to start at the beginning – can you remember the first time you met each other?
Morph: I remember it clearly mate. It was at Southbank and he just rolled up to me and said, ‘You’re Morph innit?’ I replied ‘yeah’ obviously, then he goes, ‘You can get some weed eh?’ (Laughing). I answered in the affirmative so Chewy went, ‘Wicked, I’m coming home with you then’. I was so gassed, this was probably before we all had phones so I never called Jak (Pietryga) or anyone first. Chewy and I just rolled up to this little stoner spot in Walthamstow where I lived, where all the mandem would go to smoke. In my head I was like, ‘I’m about to roll up on the boys with fucking Chewy Cannon bruv.’ We arrived and all my Stow mates were shocked, ‘What the fuck is Chewy doing here?’
At that point you must have been on Blueprint and a bit of a name in UK skating, right Chewy?
Chewy: I guess so, yeah.
Morph: I was probably 16 or 17 and Chewy was around 21 I’d say. This is long before I knew any ‘famous’ skaters or anything like that and Chewy was already appearing in Blueprint videos that we all looked up to…
Chewy: That’s right son and don’t you forget it, (laughing). I remember that day too, long time ago now.
What was the biggest icebreaker: skating or weed consumption?
Chewy: Well we’ve already answered that one haven’t we?
Morph: Ha ha, we came for the skating but left for the weed.
Chewy: Basically like every day.
Your lives and skateboard careers have been quite connected for what, 15/20 years?
Chewy: Yeah it must be. I always took Morph under my wing.
Morph: That’s how it happened – Chewy just straight up told Dan Magee, ‘I’m filming with Morph for Blueprint’…
Chewy: (Laughing) ‘Yeah I’m not filming with Chez (Neil Chester, Blueprint filmer) any more, I’m filming with Morph so you’re going to have to start taking him on Blueprint trips.’
Morph: I can remember Dan phoning me and saying, ‘look Morph, Chewy won’t film with anyone but you now so we’re going to have to work something out to get you involved.’
Chewy: He said something recently about how I stopped filming once Morph had gone to jail too, ha ha.
Chewy Cannon, switch nosegrind. Photo: Rafal Wojnowski.
I guess your lifestyles and attitudes towards skating were a bit more compatible.
Morph: What I like with Chewy is that it’s not business – we just go skating. Don’t get it twisted, I film a lot of people and some of them approach filming with a definite ‘business’ mindset and that’s sound and as a filmer you’ve got to adapt to that. With Chewy though, we go skating and if something happens, it happens: we’re not going out with a preformed idea of where we’re going or what trick we’re going to film. I mean we have ideas obviously but if we’re skating home after a day and we haven’t filmed anything we’re not on a sad one.
Chewy: Yeah that’s it – that’s why filming works with him because we’re mates. If we weren’t skating we’d still be hanging out, chatting shit and chilling. It’s natural. At the time that Morph started to get involved with Blueprint, things were beginning to take a bit of a serious turn. This would be early 2000s and people were trying to come up, get sponsored, get paid, which in turn had an effect on how filming was: generators, specific missions to get specific tricks, etc. That was never what it was about for me, I just went skating because that’s what I did, before we all realised that it was a waste of time, (laughing).
How long did it take before you started to get paid to film with Chewy?
Morph: I filmed him for a few of the Hold Tight London edits first but as soon as Magee found out that I was getting clips of Chew, he was on me. Like, ‘you’ve got clips of my boys yeah?’ I don’t think it was too long after that point that I started getting paid to film Chewy, and the rest of the Blueprint guys. It coincided with the time that Chez decided to leave Blueprint so it must’ve been about a year after Chewy and I were out together all the time, maybe 2004?
I can remember Magee calling me up to tell me that Chez was leaving and that Blueprint needed a new filmer. Straight off I assumed that it’d be Hold Tight Henry and that he was ringing me to tell me that. Instead it was like, ‘no you dickhead, we want you to do it.’
Chewy: The grime MC of skateboard filming – that’s what Dan called you, (laughing). On a personal level, it definitely helped me as well. I wouldn’t have been as productive during that era without Morph getting involved with Blueprint. I couldn’t deal with how serious everything was getting so he was a breath of fresh (ish) air.
Were you instrumental in getting Morph involved with Palace too?
Chewy: As soon as I left Blueprint it was on – Morph was coming with me…
Morph: I’ve always been friends with Lev (Tanju) and all them boys but I’m sure that the Chewy connection solidified me being invited to do stuff with Palace. I knew Lucien (Clarke) already and I’d filmed with him but I was never ‘his filmer’. Once Chewy got on Palace it was a case of him asking Lev, ‘we’re going to get Morph to film right?’ and Lev was like, ‘of course, who else?’
Chewy: Plus at the beginning of Palace, Lev was the only filmer and straight away he was like, ‘fuck trying to film Chewy going down the street’, (laughing). Morph is more danger wheels, he doesn’t give a fuck; he’ll follow you wherever you’re going when he’s filming. So that was the way it had to happen – Lev wasn’t about to kill himself, he was relieved, ‘I’m getting a bad back out here – over to you Morph.’
How does the experience of going on Palace trips compare with your original Blueprint days Chew? No Travel Lodge family rooms these days, right?
Chewy: Mate, I haven’t been on a trip for so long that it’s hard to remember. You are right though, Palace trips are definitely different – they’re so unruly, you just do whatever you want basically. I mean (Danny) Brady tries to keep everyone in order but it’s hard work for him. Shit gets done but people are on their own tip the whole time.
Pretty ironic that Brady is the one in that position now too.
Chewy: Yeah, (laughs), after all those years of Brady being under Magee’s rule and hating it and then him ending up being the Magee character himself. Not that he’s the same but you can definitely see the influence of that Blueprint training in him today. He’s militant with his own skating; he’ll watch his own footage and be like, ‘I’ve got to do it again, that was shit’, even when it wasn’t, (laughing).
What’s the most balling trip you’ve been on with Palace?
Chewy: There have been a few: some of those LA trips were sick with the pools and whatnot.
Morph: I only went on one of them but I remember seeing photos before we got there and thinking that the outhouse was where we were staying. Lev piped up like, ‘No Morph, that’s just the outhouse mate.’
What about that Hawaii trip?
Chewy: Yeah that was probably the most balling. Morph wasn’t on that one because he was doing his bits, but that one was ridiculous. We were staying on the beach; we could see the North Shore out of the windows; dudes surfing right outside. Watching that every morning on the balcony was crazy. The house where we were staying must’ve been real, real money.
Definitely a long way from sharing a Travel Lodge family room with five dudes.
Chewy: It’s a long way from Great Yarmouth mate. I’m from a council estate in Great Yarmouth – what the fuck am I doing in Hawaii?
Chewy Cannon, backside 50-50. Photo: Rafal Wojnowski.
Was there a point for you Chewy where you realised that, ‘whoa, this skateboarding thing is actually a proper living now’, rather than it being like the dole but with free shoes?
Chewy: I keep saying this to the young-uns because skateboarding has changed so much since I got into it and everyone is hungry for a pay cheque now.
Morph: There’s definitely a sense of entitlement these days.
Chewy: I get it obviously because things are different, but for me, I didn’t start making proper money until Palace popped off. That’s probably only like five years ago where I actually started pinging P. Adidas have always been kind to me but I wouldn’t be in the situation I’m in now if Palace hadn’t really started popping off. To answer your question Ben, not until about five years ago, which if you think about how long I’ve been doing this, is pretty recent really. When I started getting two decent cheques – one from adidas and one from Palace – that’s when it became worth it financially – all those years skating the Asda carpark actually paid off.
Morph: Nothing against people doing it for success in a modern way but I feel like I need to shout out a bunch of people who went in and got nothing financially from it.
Go on.
Morph: People like Frank Stephens, Toby Shuall, all them guys. They were doing it and they never saw a pay cheque cuz, not ever. That’s what I love about Chewy man – we go skateboarding every time we go out. It’s not a filming mission or anything like that, it’s just skating: it’s a real thing. It’s so sick that he’s finally managed to break it after all those years of just skating. That’s a great thing for me. He’s finally got a chance to make some money for himself and I’m glad for him because he deserves every penny of it.
Were you wearing Palace gear in prison Morph?
Morph: I had some Chewy crepes in Pen, a couple of Palace tracksuits; my dad stole the rest of it, (laughing). He’s a cheeky bastard you know, Chewy sent me a pair of crepes to prison and my dad’s seen them and sent Chewy a message like, ‘those are nice trainers there Chewy.’ In the end Chewy just asked him, ‘do you want a pair Pete?’ He loves it.
Chewy: Palace Pete.
Did people know what Palace was in prison?
Morph: It was funny. I didn’t really mention it but eventually someone brought up Palace in conversation and I said how it was my boy’s thing. There was a full table of guys all going, ‘What’s Palace?’ and this one guy who was gassing about it starts shouting, ‘What? You man don’t know about Palace?’ They all reacted really sheepish afterwards, (laughs).
Chewy: I’ve got a tip for visiting prison actually.
Go on.
Chewy: If you’re going in to visit a mate and you want to get something from the visitors café to take to your meeting then make sure you get there early or you will be waiting for time bruv. You know, I turn up and I’m wanting to get some snacks for Morph, his Ready Salted crisps and Dairy Milk and whatnot but if I’m not there early enough I’ll end up waiting in a queue for an hour whilst he sits there twiddling his thumbs assuming that I’ve boyed the visit off.
Morph: It’s terrible. They ought to sell no queue tickets like they do at Alton Towers.
You were in deep filming with Palace when things started to go tits up in your life right Morph? That clip of you
dealing on the phone
whilst you were filming was real wasn’t it?
Morph: Oh yeah, it was real unfortunately.
Was there a point where you knew that Morph’s situation was getting out of control Chewy?
Chewy: Yeah there was. Thing is, I’d gone through a break up and moved to Barcelona so at the point where Morph was going a bit wayward I wasn’t able to keep my eyes on him. I do feel responsible to an extent…
Morph: Nah, never that.
Chewy: I know but I do feel responsible Morph; I should’ve been more on it. I could’ve tried to drag you out of it…
Morph: I’ll be real with you: I was that deep into the crime life by that point that no matter how many people were telling me to stop, I was literally in a position where I couldn’t stop. That’s why I was doing so much mad stuff, because I knew I’d turned into a guy that I never wanted to be.
Chewy: The hole you’d dug for yourself was just too deep to climb out of. Even on that LA trip I could kind of see that you were drifting into some other world.
Morph: That was the start of all the stupid shit, taking stupid shit. At first I didn’t realise why I was doing it but looking back it was because I had so much anxiety because of all the stuff I was mixed up in. People ask me these days, ‘are you feeling okay?’ but I don’t really have much to be anxious about any more. I don’t wake up thinking ‘oh it’s my 48th day clean’ or anything because I no longer have any reason to be messing with those drugs, you know? These days I’m good, you just have to take steps to make yourself happy – like today I pictured going to see my guy Johnny Hoxton to get this ring and then going to shoot the photo for this and it all happened. I’ve come home with a smile on my face.
Chewy: You’re 18 years old again man. It’s great to have you back. Before you went into jail you weren’t the person we all knew…
Morph: I know. The shotting had just taken over at that point.
Chewy: It’s a bad scene – everyone’s a bad man, everyone’s gully…
Morph: This is it – I ended up playing up to this character that I thought I had to be in that world and before I knew it, that was who I’d become. Before I knew what was happening, I was moving crazy amounts of whatever. This is why I always say that the jail thing was the best outcome for me. There was no other alternative: it was death or jail, which I know sounds ridiculous but the way I was living, I just wouldn’t have woken up one morning. When I first went into jail I thought that my life was over but, after a year or so, I realised that it was actually a blessing in disguise.
Chewy: You didn’t even want people to visit you.
Morph: I knew I’d done wrong and I finally had that moment of clarity because I was off the drugs and I was just embarrassed. I’d had all this skate opportunity in front of me and I decided to take the other route. What a fucking idiot. But, you live and learn…
Morph, 2021. Photo: Rafal Wojnowski
So you put people off visiting?
Morph: Well my dad would come obviously but other people would hit me up to visit and I’d just wonder what the point was. What are we really going to talk about? One guy came to visit and just complained about how long it was getting in there as a visitor. I was like, ‘alright I understand that must’ve been long for you but my brother, I’ve got three more years of this shit.’ (Laughing). The plain thing was that I was just embarrassed to be in there so I wasn’t too hyped on people seeing me like that.
Chewy: You did like the extra canteen food that you got on visits though.
Morph: That’s true. When I clocked that and I realised that the visiting food was actually pretty dank I changed my stance a bit.
So the food you got when visitors came was different from the average stuff?
Morph: Yeah much better – you get chicken wraps, chicken burgers, pizzas – you’re not getting chicken burgers in the wing.
Chewy: This is why I said about getting there early because all the visitors are ordering five chicken burgers each so it runs out real fast.
You went to visit Morph in jail a few times, right Chewy?
Chewy: I probably only went five times…
Morph: That was the most amount of visits from non-family though.
Chewy: I went with Gareth (Skewis) once; Nick Jensen came once too…
Morph: That was random but nice. I mean Jensen seems like the kind of person where if it was up to him, he wouldn’t go anywhere near a prison. I’m sure most people wouldn’t want to, but definitely not Nick – that was really nice of him.
He was there the day I got out too: Jensen, Jak Pietryga and Kev Parrott – quite a random crew.
You were in touch with loads of people over the four years you were in prison via the various phones you managed to get in there.
Morph: Basically when I was in Pentonville, (prison in north London) I had a little Zanco Tiny phone. That was mainly to speak to my dad; I wasn’t speaking to too many other people at that point. Then when I went to The Mount, (prison in Hemel Hempstead) it was a big difference. I’d gone from a Category B jail to a C-Cat and it was much freer. There were big zoots on the go; people were doing big lines of chisel whilst doing their workouts; banging tunes, etc. I was like, ‘rah, this place seems alright.’ Shit was just on hand again so for a while it was a bit of a party.
Chewy: This is where the hooch brewing started too, right?
Morph: Yeah, I knew how to do it already but The Mount made me feel like I was a little bit safer, which I wasn’t because I kept getting caught and getting bare days added to my sentence.
Tell us about the ‘prison hack’ videos, those blew up on the Internet even though you were making them in jail, right?
Morph: Yeah I got myself a Smartphone because they were about in The Mount. Certain people hooked me up there, sorted me the money to buy the Smartphone but I don’t want to mention any names for obvious reasons. That was when I started making those
prison hack videos
with my mate.
‘Don’t panic, don’t stress’ – how on earth do you manage to have and keep a Smartphone in prison?
Morph: There are just patterns that can be learned in there, when people’s cells are going to get searched, etc. It went in waves but it was silly at times, I mean you’re talking about me having a phone but there were guys in there with a kilo of weed, (laughing). They had all sorts of shit – pills, Ketamine – I mean who the fuck wants to do Ket in prison? Anyway, we made the
prison hack videos
, which to be honest I didn’t want to do because I was aware of what happened if you put yourself in a video in there. All it took was for it to get reposted on Street Blogs and one guv to see it and you’re screwed. Plus we had Potter Payper (British rapper) on our wing so the staff were already all about it anyway, ‘oh we’ve got Potter Payper’, (laughing).
They went viral, right?
Morph: Yeah, it got crazy views on Street Blogs and they came and crashed our cell at midnight, took him away, found the phone, all that. There were other times when you’d just get access to someone else’s phone because they didn’t want it in their cell. That’s why I’d randomly pop up on Instagram from time to time after the ‘prison hacks’ one got taken. By the end, I didn’t really want another phone because I’d had so many days added through having the other one. I ended up with another little Zanco that you couldn’t do calls on; you could only text. I spoke to you on that a fair bit Ben – that was like a little thumb sized thing, which I got so good at texting on that other guys would come ask me to send texts for them. That thing was so small that it was much easier to hide so I never really worried about getting caught out.
Was it always the plan that you guys at Palace would hook Morph up with a job so that he had something positive waiting for when he got out of jail?
Chewy: Yeah, for sure. I wouldn’t let him go anywhere else, not whilst I’m breathing. Gareth and Lev are sound too, they recognise that Morph’s put his work in and he earned the opportunity. He was part of the foundation of what allowed Palace to blow up like it did so it just goes to show how real the brand is that we never forgot about that.
Morph: I’ve got to agree with that. The Palace guys absolutely saw the worst side of me so for them to look past that and still see the person that I was before… It’s humbling man. That’s one of the reasons why I’m so active now that I’m free, because I want to make these people who believed in me proud. If those guys can do all they’ve done for me, the least I can do is put the work in.
How soon after Morph got out were you two out skating and filming Chewy?
Chewy: Pretty much straight away.
Morph: We basically filmed a part…
Chewy: Well, not a whole part but we got some shit.
Morph: Whether you think it’s good enough to be ‘a part’ or not – you went and filmed two and a half minutes of stuff with me bruv, straight from Pen.
Chewy: I guess, we only filmed for about a month. We were just both on a hype to get back on it as soon as Morph got out, then I went and dislocated my bloody knee.
How quick did skating come back for you Morph? You were inside for four years, that’s a long time without even stepping on a board.
Morph: I ended up doing just under four years. I had 49 days of my sentence left and then for some reason I got 42 days taken off which meant that I went from having six weeks left, to just having a week left. I found out on the Sunday that I was leaving the following Thursday.
Chewy: I’m getting all excited about it now even though it’s already happened, (laughing).
Morph: I spoke to Chewy the day after I got out and I had a few options of where to stay so I just went and left some stuff at Chewy’s house and proceeded to go and film skateboarding. The second day I went to London and decided not to go back to my dad’s because I didn’t want to bring Covid back with me. He wasn’t too keen so we agreed that I’d stay in London. He was calm with it because he knew I wasn’t going to London to be a fuckhead, he watches my stories and shit…
Chewy: You got back on it with skating really quickly; I was surprised.
Morph: I’ll be honest; everything was a big surprise. Everyone in jail was saying how it took a couple of months to get used to everything and I believed it because everyone was saying it…
Chewy: Yeah but in reality, a couple of days after getting out you were filming lines down the middle of the road again. There are very few filmers who can do that anyway – you know just following off the curb, into the road like it’s no bother. And that’s without having been in jail for four years – you were straight back on it mate. I remember thinking, ‘well his balls are still there.’
Morph: Honestly, up until a few weeks ago I was still waiting for some big feeling to come. I still do weird things where I’ll sit there being hungry for hours until I realise that I’m in the real world and I have to sort that out for myself, that nobody’s going to come and feed me. It’s strange little things like that which have stayed with me. There’s been no big overwhelming ‘I can’t handle it’ feeling though.
I remember you freaking out about contactless payments and how you could order McDonald’s to your house when you first got out.
Morph: Yeah there were loads of things like that. I remember the first night I’d set up my phone and then spent ages looking for places to hide it in my room, until I realised that I didn’t need to.
Chewy: Doing things like this will probably help you too I think, to kind of get it straight in your head, time to reflect on what you’ve experienced.
Morph: Definitely, talking about it helps but for real I’m genuinely very embarrassed about it. It’s not something that I want to glamourise at all. I’m talking about it because hopefully it’ll help other people and so not too many people think I’m a scumbag, you know? No matter how many people say, ‘it’s cool man’, I do think that if people knew the full extent of who I was at that point then maybe they wouldn’t be able to look past it. But that’s how it is, I did it and I have to deal with it. Love to everyone who is able to look past it.
It is crazy how many young kids look at the road as a legitimate aspiration.
Morph: Too right. The road most definitely isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. My friends in jail, even those ones who I still speak to, are all sitting there pissed. They’ve done something for their gang or whatever and they don’t get anything. Say they’ve killed someone over some gang bullshit and they’re two years into a twenty-year sentence, what have they got? They don’t even get shouted by the mandem: the only time they’ll hear from their supposed boys is when they’re posting all this ‘free up my man’ on Social Media. What use is that?
None of this road shit is real. It’s not real. I just wanna stress that to people. I got respect in jail for being a skateboarder and not talking about what I’d done. I got caught with a lot of food so I could’ve walked around that wing like a fucking plug. Dudes on that wing who were plugs were pointing at me and saying, ‘yo I used to get my tings off that guy.’ Never once would I ever have guessed that I got more respect off of people by walking in my cell and looking at skate photos. All I ever heard was, ‘Morph you’ve done something. You’ve got something. I wish I’d done something.’ These are all real guys too, serious guys who idolise your Potter Paypers and the like, all of these people are saying the same thing, which is, ‘I wish I had something beyond the road,’ whether that be skating or music or whatever. I cannot stress enough, if you’ve got something, a passion, pursue it bro. Fuck the road. It’s dead and fake. You’ll go to jail and you’ll get forgotten and that’s it. The road ting ain’t real; the positive ting is real. I cannot stress this enough.
Chewy: Preach it Morph.
Morph: It’s true though innit. I know that more than ever now. I was looking back at my Instagram recently, at posts just before I went to jail. I’d written this whole paragraph like two months before I got sent down. It said, ‘pursue what you love because you don’t know when the dream’s gonna end and the nightmare’s going to begin.’ I clearly knew exactly what was going to happen. And all that happened because I wasn’t pursuing the skateboarding – it doesn’t even need to be skating, it could be anything positive just not the road. I’m sorry man, I know I’m going on but I did four years for that shit and it’s not real. I don’t want other people to make the same mistakes and if me talking about it can save one person then so be it.
Now that things are starting to get normal again after Covid, what have you got planned Chewy?
Chewy: I’ve got my surgery set up for September, then after that I’m hoping to go to Mexico. I’ve got to wait a bit after the surgery before I can walk but after that, I just have to do the physio, which I can do anywhere as long as I take all the equipment with me and have the Internet. So the plan is to spend some time in Mexico rehabbing my knee. Working from home mate, it’s the ‘new normal’ innit?
What’s going on with
JETLAGBROTHERS
? I’m guessing nobody’s been suffering from Jet Lag for the last year and a half sitting at home waiting for Covid to fuck off.
Chewy: Ha ha, yeah that’s been a bit of a problem for us. More like the No Jet Lag Brothers really. Me and
Gunes (Özdogan)
are still on it with JLB. I’ve never really talked about it in the mags but the original idea was to use the brand to give something back to skating. To go to places where skating exists but there’s a need for help – kind of like the Skateistan thing really. That was our concept – travel and giving back to the communities where we travel to: I feel like that gets lost in skateboarding often. Everyone is always bang up for going to places but there’s rarely any payback for the local communities – you know, you go, you get your clips, you get a local shop to help you out with spots and whatnot but nobody ever gives back – there’s no demo, or signings or any of that any more, most of the time people won’t even visit the local skate store. I feel like that is missing in skating these days – so that was what we wanted to do with JLB. We’ve started reaching out to the Cuba Skate community and that was planned as the next trip but then Covid hit so it didn’t happen. We’ll get on it though, once my knee’s fixed and it’s easy to travel again, we’ll go and help to build something with the guys over in Cuba.
What’s the best bit of advice that Lev Tanju has ever given you?
Chewy: I can’t think of any advice in particular but just that everything he says is fucking hilarious. I guess that counts as advice right? I was reading the shit he’d written under the new boards today and creasing. I actually sent him a couple too – you know the one that said, ‘It’s funny how Palace is still independently owned, does anyone want to buy my half because I fancy retiring to Barbados’? That was mine.
Morph: Again, like with Chewy – it’s just the comedy with Lev. And the consistency of it – the comments under the garms; how can you be that on point every single time? Even when you know he’s over it and is probably sat at home in his boxers trying to think of them, they’re still hilarious.
Okay, final one to you Chewy – in
Tres Trill
where Adrien Bulard hands you the sack of bud and then you pay him and back 50-50 the hubba – was that set up or real?
Chewy: Nah, it was 100% real time. I was fucking stressing that day, that’s the only reason I was skating that hubba in the first place, because I didn’t have any weed. There was no bud, so in my head I was like, ‘arrgh fuck this I’m going to grind the fuck out of everything’, (laughing). I did the 50-50 wallie to 50-50 thing just before it. We went down the road and there was a festival on and I could hear Wu-Tang playing in the background. In my head I decided fuck it, I’m going to skate this awful hubba and just as I was about to start skating, Adrien appeared with a sack of bud and sorted it. I know it does look like a fake drug deal for the sake of the camera but I swear it wasn’t. I was so hyped that he turned up that I just pulled the money out, gave it to him and ollied onto the hubba first try and landed it. I even landed on the flip trick afterwards, (laughing). After that I skated in a straight line directly to the yard and bunned…
Morph: ‘Do you wanna see the footage Chew?’ ‘Nah, fuck that…’ (Laughing).
We should probably call it there because the last thing Arthur said was, ‘try not to go on…’
(Everyone laughing)
Chewy: Mate, we’ve definitely gone on. Sorry Arthur.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 27, 2023
Patrick ‘Rocco’ Rogalski – Rille
Researching Patrick Rogalski on the internet one of the first entries that might catch the eye is that of a namesake: Patrick Rogalski, performance coach for footballers, living in Hanover (‘If you set yourself a clear goal and work on it consistently, you will live up to a potential you didn’t know you had.’,
www.patrick-rogalski.com
).
Well, Patrick Rogalski (the skater) is a man of goals and potential, he’s a performer in his own right. ‘Rogge’ or ‘Rocco’, as his friends call him, is a well of uplifting positivity and skate motivation. Whether or not he is out working on fulfilling goals and achieving potentials methodically optimised – or rather the happy-go-lucky-way of the naturally gifted, you’ll be able to learn a bit more about on the following pages.
Patrick Rogalski, backside nosebluntslide, Kulturforum, Berlin. Ph. Henrik Biemer
Interview by Jan Kliewer
Hi Patrick, straight away: What does the Rocco-Lifestyle consist of in 2023? And for those that don’t know, could you please explain how you got the nickname?
Well, it all started with me not wanting to use social media, not owning a phone that could run Insta and Yannick Schall, my TM for Titus at the time, trying to tell me I needed an account. So in the end, he set one up for me, named it
@theroccolifestyle
and with some other dudes from the team started posting stuff in my name: skate footy, party pics… Rocco lifestyle… Mostly stuff I would have never posted myself. This went on for quite a
while before I finally took on the account. But I would say I’ve grown up a bit. I’m with a girl… It’s a bit more behaved these days.
Which famous Rocco do you relate most to? Rocko from
Rocko’s Modern Life
,
Rocco Siffredi
or
Steve Rocco
?
Well, it might have been a bit of Rocco Siffredi back in the days, but today it’s definitely Rocko from the Modern Life (laughs). My Siffredi days are over… No Steve Rocco ambitions either (laughs).
Crooked grind, Malmö. Ph. Dennis Scholz
You’re originally from Goslar, a pretty old town in the Harz mountains, a touristy place with mainly older folks I would say, hikers and cross-country-skiers. How did you get into skating there?
Yeah, that’s where I grew up. I was really lucky to have a small indoor park there. That’s where I went every day after school; that’s where I got
to know other skaters. I think I started in 2001 and the park must have been around since at least a year or two prior to that. I had only heard of the place first and spent one whole summer vacation searching for it. It was rad, had a sick pyramid and everything. I was lucky, considering the size of Goslar. Plus I felt growing up there was cool to reach other places like Göttingen, Braunschweig or Hanover. I would always take the train. It was a good base to go from.
Do you still go back to skate there? Any secret Goslar spots?
My mom moved to the next town Bad Harzburg, so, not really, no. I have friends I see every now and then, but they don’t skate.
In Goslar they do have a small outdoor park these days, though, but that’s about it I think. I did help rallying to get it, but it took forever and once it came, I’d already left town. So to this day I’ve never skated it.
Ollie, Berlin. Ph. Dennis Scholz
You were off to Braunschweig then?
Yeah, I wanted to see places and meet new people. I quickly met all the crew at Boardjunkies Skateshop, I started an internship there, finished my school and after took on an apprenticeship there. Marc Hausen, the owner there, became quite important to me because he was a man of action. He was moving things forward, had the shop, the Walhalla skatepark, was doing sales for other brands… I admired his drive. He became a bit of a father/homie figure or older brother to me; a role I had never really had in my life, since my dad died when I was nine months old. Marc and I are still in contact.
I know from André Gerlich, one of your friends from Braunschweig, you were said to have the magic gift of staying at the skatepark skating until two minutes before your train, and still managing to catch it every time. What’s the secret?
(Laughs) Staying until the very end and being very last-minute is something I’ve learned early on. The truth is though, I think I must have missed that train just as many times… returning from the station, saying, ‘Hey guys, looks like I need a bed for tonight!’ So no secrets to reveal there, sorry.
So then at one point you caught the train to Berlin. Is this where you call home now?
Definitely yes. It feels great to be here. I first started travelling here from Braunschweig, sleeping on couches, at Farid’s (Ulrich) and Yannick’s place a lot. Weekends turned into weeks, and at one point I just didn’t want to leave anymore. It’s the best.
Wallie, Berlin. Ph. Henrik Biemer
What’s skating in Berlin like for you?
I love that there are a ton of people to skate with. I don’t stick to just one gang. I try to arrange my crews for the next session and bring people together but definitely try to keep it fresh. Skating is fluctuating here. People come to visit, to study, to work; for a day, for summer, for a year. I love the exchange. Sergio (Ben Mario) and his crew from Lübeck most recently.
On the other hand, my go-to since day one would be Hirschi (Roland Hirsch). He’s always down to skate whatever, wherever; arranges his work so he can spend most of his day skating – so that perfectly fits my schedule. We thrive off each other; it’s a match.
The way I see it, you’ve got three signature moves that you do extremely well: nollie frontside flips, flip backside noseblunts and that flippy no-comply thing (Casalla). If you could keep only one of them, which would it be?
Flip back noseblunt of course.
Gun to your head, which of those would you do down El Toro?
The Casalla flip (laughs).
Switch backside 180 kickflip, Malmö. Ph. Dennis Scholz
André told me, when you guys would learn tricks together, you would have been that guy that could flip out of the trick an hour later. Is that true? How do you go about learning tricks? Does it come easy to you?
I don’t think I ever consciously went out to learn certain tricks. I always follow what feels fun. Progress is the result, not the goal. I don’t really get methodical about it. I don’t want to get bitter over a trick. I trust my guts and I’m patient. When I notice something is not working one day, it might very well do the next. Or the next. Or the next. I try to contemplate what I do or ponder mistakes. But instead of letting tricks get to me I let them lay for a moment, and the next time I try, I might find a new approach. Currently under construction: switch frontside heels…
I watched a P-Rod clip the other day where he describes how he kept practising the same trick for a week to take it to a bigger stage, going back to the park to train when something wasn’t working out –  that’s definitely not my cup of tea. Although, out on the streets I’m ready to battle a trick until I get it if that’s what it takes.
Who’s got the better nollie frontside flips, Denny (Pham) or you?
I think Denny’s are more on lock than mine. More precise. He’s a machine. He’s another guy I really look up to for his drive in skating, and in finding ways to keep going in life and moving forward.
Crooked grind pop-over, Berlin. Ph. Henrik Biemer
What are some of your fondest travel des-tinations through skating? What was a low-point?
I had the chance to go on this pretty amazing RedBull trip to Myanmar once. It was a talented, but really random crew, barely any spots, but an amazing country to explore via bus for three weeks. It was Kevin Métallier, Chris Haslam, Matt Debauche, and I didn’t know anyone. It was outside of my comfort zone, but definitely worth it. New people, new place, a ton of memories…
A funny low point that comes to mind is when Domi (Maul) lost the keys to our van in Porto running from the waves. It sucked but we had a good laugh that night when we found out we had the moment when the keys fell from his pocket on film… We went into proper video-analysis of the situation.
You seem like you know your skate-life-hustle very well. Can you share any secrets to surviving on a budget?
I don’t know, not much I can say other than: choose your skate-trip destinations wisely. Of course you’ll have more money to spend on nice food in a place like Portugal compared to LA or New York, where you probably won’t be eating much other than pizza slices. But that’s about it.
Ok, so again, no secrets to reveal? What about hair products? You’ve got great hair. What do you do with it?
(Laughs) I don’t even use shampoo, man. All natural! The only product I can recommend is Hawaiian self-tanning cream. I found that at my girlfriend’s and never let go of it.
From the outside you come off as a very positive character, the type of guy that sees the good in every bad, and always lands on his feet. Would you agree or is that impression misleading?
No, I think this is true. Dwelling on negative stuff doesn’t get you anywhere. Of course I’m aware that the skateboarding life can be difficult, and you’re best advised to have some sort of idea to fall back on up your sleeve. That is something in the back of my head, something my mom brings up every now and then. You know, find another foothold somewhere… Yet, I’m staying positive about it. I think for me it’s a general and very conscious act of looking at the world. Sure, there will be tough times, but every end can be the beginning of something else that’s potentially rad.
Wallie kickflip, Malmö. Ph. Dennis Scholz
What fuels your life when you’re not skating?
Music. Music is another big thing for me. I love listening to music. I bring my speaker wherever I go and love checking out new sounds. For now, it’s a passion; a hobby I do to entertain my friends, not so much being booked for a gig to entertain strangers. Keeping it fun no matter the setting is easier for me in skating than in music. I’m by no means good yet, but I’ll keep going, getting better, digging deeper. I bought an MPC during lock-down. Nerding out with that thing is like starting skating all over again; like learning kickflips. Same goes for DJing.
People all over already love your playlists. What are the key ingredients of a good set?
Funky good times, Hip-Hop old and new… I can connect with all sorts of stuff. Most important is to feel out the crowd. Play for them not for yourself. The Quantic Soul Orchestra have some tunes that make me happy. That’s the most listened to tunes on my playlist.
Frontside nosegrind pop-out, Malmö. Ph. Dennis Scholz
What are your survival tips for Berlin party nights?
Connections! Know where you can get in, where you know people at the bar rather than spending a ton of money on taxis, getting denied at doors or paying for expensive drinks. Play it safe. Go to exhibitions – always free drinks!
What’s your favourite Berlin club right now? Where do the hot nights go down?
I don’t really go to clubs much anymore. I prefer dance bars. I like Arkaoda, that’s a bit of both, bar and club. Eden, but I haven’t really been there much. And anyway, the hottest nights are had out on the streets.
Ok, l like that. Last question: Rather play a sold out show with the crowd going wild to your set, or the glory ride-away from your signature trick down El Toro?
(Laughs) That glory ride-away any day!! Hands way up in the air! All smiles.
Kickflip, Berlin. Ph. Dennis Scholz

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 7, 2017
Mortensen & Mortensen in Malmö
Sondre and Amandus. Ph. Alexander Olivera
What happens when skateboarding culture becomes saturated with the elements that were originally what skaters rebelled against? When the beers and the bros and the burly elbow out the weird, the creative and the individual? Wouldn’t that mean skateboarding was replaceable and it was time to abandon the sinking ship? Well – we’re not quite there yet and this interview is a testament to that fact.
Amandus and Sondre Mortensen are from the north of Sweden and have grown up isolated from any hub of skateboarding culture. Somehow, a skateboard found it’s way to a flea market in Luleå and from there to the Mortensen household. The brothers discovered skating on their own terms.
Come the time for high school, their parents supported Amandus, three years Sondre’s senior, to move to Malmö to attend Bryggeriets Gymnasium. Three years later, Sondre joined him and they are now part of the fabric of the Malmö skate scene. They can be spotted in the oddest of circumstances at the oddest times, waxing something or just hanging out – a quirky duo out discovering new spots when everyone else has defaulted to the park.
As brothers, they are both intrigued by the things that stand out. To them, this seems like a departure from skating culture. To us, that’s about as wrong as you can be. If skateboarding needs anything right now, it’s more people like the Mortensen brothers. Check it.
Interview by Gustav Eden
The following is an excerpt from chats during a garage-session in Malmö. A few stories below ground, we find ourselves in a dumping-zone for the local shopping mall. A loading dock leads to dumpsters and rows of discarded display-items line the walls. The opposing walls are raw stone. You expect Dr Evil’s henchmen to materialize any minute. It’s the perfect setting for a Mortensen session. The conversation drifts to filming…
Gustav: So why do you keep putting out
short edits
? Why don’t you save up for full sections anymore?
Amandus Mortensen: Well, we don’t really have anyone to send footage to, so we just publish it ourselves. That’s whom we do it for anyways, really. The last full part I did with the powerslide down the Triangeln stairs – well that trick was filmed two years before we put it out. By that time it started to feel a bit shit. You had seen it so much on the computer that you were kind of over it. Then we put it out and I was of course still stoked, but you move on after such a long time.
Sondre Mortensen: The important thing is to be happy with it yourself. You constantly progress as a skater, so it’s best to get it out before you move on.
Amandus is trying a drop-down boardslide pop-up. He has a go and slides out on the fresh wax.
Do you still wax as much as you used to?
Amandus: Hmm… Less making spots from wax now, but… Well, ‘It should slide.’
Sondre: Amandus has stopped skating obstacles. (Laughs)
Amandus, wallride nosegrind in Malmö. Ph. Daniel Bernstål
Is that a kind of principle for you guys? You invent spots as much as tricks?
Amandus: Well, we would never film a backtail flip out on some ledge. It’s more fun to see something different.
Amandus has his next shot.
(To Amandus) I saw you warm up at Svampen this summer and you were banging out thigh-high switch heels and the full flatland register. Yet your parts have less of that stuff these days.
Sondre: It’s really fun to skate that way too.
Amandus: Yes it’s fun. It’s just not something we would film. We would never film standard tricks.
What qualifies as a standard trick?
Amandus: Well if you are going to film something it needs to have that ‘oooh-feeling’. I don’t know what to call it, but something that makes it worth it.
Sondre: ‘Oooh’- Like it’s something intriguing. Something you yourself want to see.
Amandus: Sometimes we start skating a spot that’s not even a spot, just mucking about and then something will evolve and we’ll think ‘hey we could film that this way and it would be cool’.
Right – so it’s spontaneous. But it seems like the filming decides the skating too. Just now you were saying you have 11 minutes of tape and should try and get something with that today, and five minutes later we have disassembled a wheel-cart and waxed the ground.
Amandus: Yes we often have an idea or an image of something we want to do.
Sondre: Right now we want to do a garage-edit of only quick clips. I’m injured now, so I’m mainly coming out with Amandus to film and get ideas. Like yesterday – I was just doing flatground manuals and was rolling over those metal sheets over there – ‘duh-duh-duh-duh-duh’ joking around. And that sparked an idea for a little clip that we filmed.
Sondre, drop down boardslide. Ph. Alexander Olivera
So you go from brothers to filmers to skate-choreographers?
Amandus: We bounce a lot of ideas between each other. Like I’m not sure the front-board pop-up will work here with the line to the rail. I’m considering a lipslide shove-it. What do you think Sondre?
Sondre
:
The front board may be hard to film.
After some debate they settle on the frontside boardslide.
Amandus: (talking about filming): You usually have an idea in your head of how you want something to look. And we’re lucky that we more or less see things the same way.
Sondre: Always when I think of something, I see it from how it’s filmed – like either through the fisheye or long-lens, the angles and everything.
Does that mean it is hard for you to film with other people?
Amandus: We are pretty much always on the same side of how to film something. When you’re filming with someone else, though, you may not agree with how they want to do it.
Sondre: Like ‘What are you up to there? You want to film
that
way?’ No, you don’t want to interfere with what they’re doing. They have their own ways and so on, but it gets harder to communicate and compromise. You know, you don’t necessarily agree.
Amandus: Filming with others can be good, but it’s a little harder than with each other.
Amandus, layback backside smith grind. Ph. Alexander Olivera
Amandus is checking the spot out, waxing, and giving it a few tries.
Sondre takes out a big bag of wine gums.
Sondre: 13.90SEK (€1.40) at Willys. Good stuff. Amandus doesn’t eat sweets anymore though.
How long have you been off sweets?
Amandus: Since last my year of high school. I just think your body feels better without it, really.
How about your health, Sondre? You ok on the sweets-programme.
Sondre: Yeah I feel pretty good.
Amandus is starting to have proper tries, sliding and popping back up, aiming for the drop-down rail.
Do you read much?
Sondre: Not really, but I just ordered a book, actually. I showed my friend Lulach at school my music and he was like ‘Oh – Orange Juice’. And I was like ’What?’ Well he is from Scotland and that’s an eighties post-punk kind of band from there. So he told me about the bands Orange Juice and Josef K. And as you may know, Josef K is the main character from Kafka’s book
The Trial
, and they put references into their descriptions from that book. That’s why I ordered it.
Sondre, frontside pivot to acid drop. Ph. Alexander Olivera
You’re into music, obviously (Sondre makes some of the soundtracks to the brothers’ edits)?
Amandus slams and nearly falls headfirst down the drop. We all stop as we try to figure out what just happened. Amandus then gets up and tries to shake the adrenaline.
Sondre: That looked really strange.
Amandus lands the next try, full focus.
Maybe it’s time…
Sondre: You let me know when you want me to get the camera out, bro?
Back to music…
Sondre: I suppose I always thought it was fun to see how other people made music. You know – behind the scenes in the studio. Then I kind of thought that if I make music myself, then it is I who is behind the scenes. My friend Joel is really into music and would learn loads of stuff. Everything he learned he would teach me.
Sondre, pole jam in Malmö. Ph. Alexander Olivera
And you have built your own guitar?
Sondre: Well my dad used to work in Lund when I started the Bryggeriet high school. Loads of the people at his work were really into building guitars so they decided to start a workshop every Wednesday in guitar making. I just came along with dad to learn a bit more about guitars and how to build them. It wasn’t an official course, but more like a gathering. In the end I built a guitar with help from my dad and we used the wood from old skateboards to make it.
And you use it to make the music for your edits? Do you have any fancy pickups and stuff?
Sondre: Yes these days it’s the only one I use, pretty much. I have some pretty mysterious pickups, actually. We bought them from a dude, Lloyd, who had the shop across the road from our house. He had some pickups that he said were Di Marcio pickups that were a bit older, but we later found out that those are usually marked in a certain way and these weren’t. They sound really good, though. Very low ohm. That means they have lower output than new ones and you need to turn the volume up. The dynamic and frequency changes too – it’s a whole science. I made a blog about it for school: skateboardingguitar.wordpress.com
What music are you into right now?
Sondre: Right now on my phone I have… Actually, I should say it like this – John Maus, Ariel Pink and Matt Fishbeck – they make up a trifecta I always listen to. Right now though, I’m listening to, Orange Juice and Josef K. Also a band called ‘The Scientific Research Institute of Cosmetics’. That’s Google-translated from Russian. Hum La is also a favourite; great things from one of my all time favourite humans. Much love!
Sondre, ollie one foot. Ph. Alexander Olivera
Amandus and Sondre discuss how to film.
Sondre: Should I walk below? It’s hard to show how high the drop is.
Amandus: Filming from up here would be odd, though. Hmm. Sometimes when you start thinking about these things it gets more complicated. You have a clear idea and then it gets muddled.
Sondre: It’s a real downer when you have a certain thing in mind and come home and the footage doesn’t correspond to how you saw it in your head. We never watch the footage back because we don’t want the VX to chew the tape. So you always have to be prepared that it may not be what you had in mind. We have some Hi-8 cameras too, though.
Amandus: We would watch Hi-8 footage back – those cameras feel more reliable than the VX.
The session is on. Amandus lands the line third try and then does three more in four goes. Mission accomplished. There are still a few minutes left on the tape.
How important is it to have fun when you’re skating?
Amandus: It’s pretty important. It usually doesn’t work out so well if you don’t. (Laughs)
Amandus and Sondre have found a box of empty water bottles. They decide to film a wallie, scattering them. Done. We pick up the bottles and wind the session up for the night.
(The footage above was filmed whilst Gustav was doing the interview)
How are you most similar?
Sondre: It feels like we are both, well it is hard to put into words, but perhaps we are a bit more open to other things.
Amandus: Yes like we both appreciate the odd and different.
Sondre: Yes like ‘strange is not bad’. That’s kind of goes into everything we do.
Do you get bored by the predictable?
Amandus: Well bored may not be the word for it, but we value the things that stand out.
Sondre: Bored… Well I have a hard time thinking about myself as ever being bored.
Amandus, ollie hippie jump. Ph. Daniel Bernstål
What inspires you in skateboarding then?
Sondre: Not skating. (Laughs) But seriously, when I don’t skate I get stoked when I skate. Before when I went to a school where no one skated, in a town without many skaters to hang with, I learned loads about skating and loved it. I progressed loads and it was really fun. It’s really fun now as well, but when you find yourself too deep in the scene…
Amandus: …it’s not as pure.
Sondre: Yes, like you are expected to try and fit in and people’s contribution can be about other things. You’re supposed to put all this other stuff into the skate equation so that it’s not skating anymore. It’s like ‘Skate Life’ or something.
Amandus: ‘Skate Image’ or perhaps not ‘skate’, but well….
Sondre: Well maybe that’s just that there is so much talk and vibes with school. Well not ’vibes’ but…
Amandus: …well the more you are away from skating…
Sondre: …the better it gets. It may sound extreme, but…
Not at all. It seems like a pretty natural relationship. How do you handle it when you feel overexposed to skating?
Amandus
:
It’s not that it’s too much skating as such. It’s more that it’s too much stuff
other
than actual skating. Like Instagram is a good example: You’re expected to do the latest tricks and all that. It’s too much of that stuff. You have to watch the right videos, do the right tricks and wear the right clothes.
Sondre: Yeah when you’re in the skate-circles skating is not about actually skating. Skating becomes about watching the right videos, wearing the same clothes, using the right language.
Amandus fastplants over a layback slappying Sondre in Malmö. Ph. Alexander Olivera
But isn’t that part of the whole skating world? The clothes and all the rest of it? Like fashion – how do you decide what to wear, for instance?
Sondre: Well I like shirts. That actually comes from a clip I saw of Raymond Molinar. He had two shirts on. From that I started liking shirts. That was in seventh grade. Now I don’t think I necessarily wear clothes that have that much to do with skating though. But there’s really cool things coming from the whole skating world thing too. And I’m glad to be a part of it. It’s funny because Pekka who works at Bryggeriet always says ’What’s up, Jeremy Klein’ because I wear big shirts. And I get somewhat happy cause I think Jeremy Klein is a cool dude – although I don’t really see myself as cool as Jeremy Klein. (Laughs)
So what do you do to avoid too much skating?
Sondre: During our break, I prefer to talk to friends at school, there’s so much more than skating at Bryggeriet. And it’s interesting to talk to different people. There’s so much to learn from everyone and everything around you. But I always carry around my Gameboy in my backpack and right now a book of classic Swedish poetry. (Laughs)
Amandus: Well I do watch skate clips, but the good ones. The ones that present skating in a good way.
When you go skating, how often do you go out just the two of you?
Amandus: Particularly in the autumn and winter we go out more on our own. It’s because we are not usually here in the summer, we go back home then, so when we are here we want to skate spots. Most people from here default to winter-mode and only skate the skatepark. So we go out just the two of us.
So Sondre is 18 and you are 21 Amandus. Stereotypically, that’s the age when partying and girls have a big part in competing with the focus on skating. Are you into all of that?
Amandus: Actually not really. The whole party scene is not that tempting for me personally. I have a better time when I don’t party then when I do.
Sondre: I just see myself more as the type of person that would rather play a game or hang out than party. I’m not that drawn to it. There’s nothing wrong with partying, and sometimes it’s fun, but I’m not that into it, really.
These days, that seems pretty rare.
Amandus: Well that’s one thing with norms. People don’t really question the things that are moulded into the culture.
Sondre: Yeah it’s really funny about the whole normative culture. It’s so strange that that is even a question, you know – ‘Do we party?’
Ph. Alexander Olivera
Exactly, and that’s the point, of course. What would you say your relationship with norms in general is?
Sondre: Hehe. Well if something doesn’t feel like it happens naturally or…
Amandus: …if you don’t feel like something, there’s no need to do it just because others do.
Are you guys ‘comfortable in your own skin’?
Sondre: Yeah sure. Maybe being used to being the only skater in school makes you comfortable with being different. I don’t know.
Well how does going from being the only skater in school to being in a school of only skaters work?
Sondre: Well, maybe I was never a real skater, if you understand what I mean. Because I’m really not one of those guys, and really don’t want to be either, if that’s what it’s about. So…. Well… Maybe I was never a real skater.
So is a skater to you someone who follows the norm or breaks it?
Amandus: Well these days, I would say it’s someone who follows, but also, these days there are many different types of skaters. It’s hard to categorise. One should just avoid trying to feel like you deserve something for whatever reasons.
Sondre: Well I feel like the more I think about all that stuff, the more blurry it gets. If I start thinking about ‘hmm… Am I confident?’ then perhaps some good thoughts will come from that after a lot of thinking, but also the other way around. It’s easy to overthink things.
Amandus, ollie in Malmö. Ph. Alexander Olivera
So do you take seriously what you stand for and who you want to be, Amandus?
Amandus: Well I don’t believe in trying to be in a way you are not, just to fit into a certain social group or situation. Everyone has a right to his or her own opinion.
Sondre: Yes that’s funny isn’t it. Whatever you do, someone will love it and someone else will hate it. Like music: some people like a band and others hate them.
One time I asked you what your plan was for the day, Amandus, and you said ‘Well first, we are going to make sure we are having a good time.’ Is that usually your day?
Amandus: Oooh… Well yes, actually. That is usually a pretty good start.
Well what happens next?
Amandus: Well if you are not having a good time, you make changes so that you do have a good time. And if you are having a good time, you keep doing what you are doing so you keep having a good time.
All right. That’s a good place to leave you, then. Cheers, guys.
Both: Cheers!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  May 26, 2015
Octagon (full video) + Interview
This past January during the Bright tradeshow in Berlin, a film by a new brand called Öctagon was premiered. Since then, the film has made its rounds around Europe and elsewhere with various other showings. On the eve of its online premiere I attempted to learn more about the film and the brand so I emailed the people behind it. What I received back was a strange response from an Öctagon system bot. Feel free to examine the responses below… –Will Harmon
All photos by
Maxime Verret
What is Öctagon?
{
< /__The Öctagon system is totalitarian and omniscient. Billions of bits of data are generated by this independent system that builds a unique reality. Individuals live within the </ Öctagon >. Geographic space doesn’t exist for real, it is not tangible but still defined by a multitude of data.” >
_]
Valentin Bauer, Tokyo.
Who are the team riders and how were they chosen?
:_
The team riders are Edouard Depaz, Valentin Bauer, Bram De Cleen, Joseph Biais, Yeelen Moens and Rémy Taveira. They all evolve within the vertical horizon and have been chosen through a complex data calculation emanating from the ‘’ Öctagon system’’.
_ }
Bram De Cleen, grind up – alley-oop nollie out, Tokyo.
The video has its own unique look. I heard someone say: “It’s like the Matrix and skateboarding together.” What was the inspiration for the art direction of the video?
[
< / The inspiration comes from the rejection of the daily and usual tasks that obedient individuals are obliged to repeat everyday. This is also the result of an interpretation of a frightening and menacing future where human beings will be reduced to the status of automatons.’’ ]
Also, who is in charge of the art direction of the brand?
\ \
_’’ Nicolas Decatoire is the Öctagon system’s architect. He is at the origin of the first code line ever that defined the system ; ’’
Joseph Biais filmed by Joaquim Bayle, Tokyo.
Can you elaborate on the locations chosen to film for the video? Why did you choose them?
{
< /__ Only Japan and Europe have been programed by the system yet. It is reported that cities such as Tokyo, Paris, London, Helsinki and Lisbon hold a high concentration of data coming from the ‘’_system_ ‘’.
_ }
Edouard Depaz, 50-50, Helsinki.
What is Öctagon’s relation with Carhartt?
{
< /__Carhartt financially supported us to decode the flaws of the system. Carhartt’s delegates Bram De Cleen and Joseph Biais were at the origin of the collective consciousness breaking with the </ Öctagon > supremacy.
’’ ]
Octagon crew in Tokyo.
Were the founders aware that there was UK wheel company named Octagon in the late-nineties/ early 2000s? Does this even matter?
[
__< The architect of the Öctagon >_was truly not aware of the previous UK wheel company. The system is not programmed to check the past but to build the future’s unique reality.]
Valentin Bauer, Tokyo.
Will we see any Öctagon products soon? If so, what will they be?
{
< /__Öctagon is currently developing bolts and clothing lines. *]
What’s next for the brand? Another video offering?
_/..
The aim is to create connexions with new recruits who are capable of uploading their own skills.
Many code lines haven’t been decrypted yet meaning that new audio-visual contents are on their way. Loading in progress…
.]
Valentin Bauer, ollie, Tokyo.
Tokyo at night.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 12, 2015
Pole Jam in Warsaw with Chris Jones, Casper Brooker and Michal Juras
Casper Brooker, backside smith grind.
Photos by Marcel Veldman and words by Chris Jones
Following a Nike SB trip to Miami in April 2014 with Jakub Kaczmarczyk (Kuba), Michal Juras, Michal Przybylowicz and CEO of Xpensiv Shit Modest Mysliwski, I stayed in touch with Kuba and have since been trying to organise some sort of excursion to their hometown of Warsaw. After a year, myself, accompanied by giant baby Casper Brooker, travelled across the English Channel to the country’s capital with photographer Marcel Veldman in tow.
Chris Jones, backside nosegrind
Prior to visiting Warsaw I had very limited knowledge of Poland’s capital. I was aware of the city’s troubled history, having to resurrect itself from previous invasions, wars and conflicts, which has led to the capital being coined ‘The Phoenix City’. These dark memories are still evident, an example perhaps being the ‘Palace of Culture and Science’ that was directly opposite the hotel we vacated. Being the tallest building in Europe it is noticeable from most corners of the city. Its undeniable presence led many Poles initially to criticise it, considering it to be a symbol of Soviet domination – a negative feeling that undoubtedly persists today. Despite my little understanding of Warsaw, I still had expectations as to what it could be like, one being a stereotypical generalisation of Warsaw being a hardened place with noticeable Western and Eastern influences, full of people drinking neat vodka everywhere. Although these assumptions were met to a certain degree, it was clear that the gap between Western and Central Europe is not as different as I expected. Instead, Warsaw upholds very similar characteristics to a lot of capitals around Western Europe, most likely a result of Poland’s membership to the European Union in 2004 since negotiations began around 1989 following the collapse of communism in Poland.
Micha Jura, quick-footed ollie up and over the channel.
Our trip was very different to what was originally planned between Kuba and me. A solo filming jaunt soon escalated in to a Nike SB funded mission. The Greek goddess of victory, Nike, transformed the floor I was expecting to be sleeping on into a fancy hotel with a swimming pool and a health spa. Although the outcome was not initially intended to be an article, morning sauna sessions combined with champagne breakfasts led to an improved level of productivity. An equation I think should be used more often on skate trips. Accommodation aside, our five day outing was no different to a lot of other skate trips in the sense that we woke up, fed ourselves, went skating all day, fed ourselves again, drank beer and went to bed. I also succeeded in my intentions of doing nothing cultural or educational what so ever, choosing to listen to Madonna and watch AVE’s part from the Vans video over twenty times with CaspB. This has resulted with me now being able to recite the entire chorus from Madonna’s hit ‘La Isla Bonita.’
Chris Jones, switch kickflip into the bank.
Still, despite my lack of exploration beyond the skateboard sphere, I still have some nice memories from the trip. Our days would usually consist of going for a swim and consuming at least four eggs and drinking too much coffee at the free breakfasts the hotel provided. We would then head out to rendezvous with Kuba, Michal and who ever was keen for a session. Kuba was nice enough to drive us around and Michal would follow on his vintage Honda motorbike. Marcel spent a lot of his time sat in the back of the car making fun of me, either calling me ™Jacket boy∫ because of my great selection of jackets or ironically a ‘hipster’, despite him being the one with a massive beard who would probably pay £5 for a bowl of cereal. Skating would always be followed by dinner and Marcel and Kuba’s vegetarianism influenced us to become veggies during our trip. So because of this we were constantly eating at vegetarian places, one of the most popular being a great Israeli vegetarian restaurant called Tel Aviv Cafe.
Michal Juras flies out of the bump to frontside bluntslide.
Warsaw definitely falls under one of my favourite places I’ve visited in Europe. My fondness stems from the capital’s raw aesthetic compared to lot of other places that are popular skateboard destinations. This is usually something that translates amazingly well on footage, as displayed perfectly in Kuba’s video Grey Area. I can definitely say that I plan on going back to Warsaw and that I was sad to leave there – what made it even sadder for me and Casper was the fact that we had to go back to a Tory run Britain as the general election was held during the five days in which we were away. WAH!
Casper Brooker, frontside 50-50 up.
Tomek Ziolkowski, wallie frontside grab.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 14, 2021
Dan Mancina Interview
Heelflip, Los Angeles
Dan Mancina cannot see. One might think this would exclude him from certain activities, such as skateboarding, but quite the contrary, he excels at it. Is sight not essential for skateboarding? Apparently not; Dan is single-handedly challenging our perceptions of what’s possible for the visually impaired. And in the past few years a lot of people have taken note of this, which in turn has garnered him quite the list of sponsors. And maybe you’ve seen him in a recent adidas edit, seen his
Actions REALized video
, read his
interview on Jenkem
, or heard him on
a podcast
– well I’ve seen/read/listened to all those things and I was still left with a lot of questions. Like: how is he so good at skating flatbars (one of the scarier things to skate in my opinion) when he can’t see them? How has his life changed since becoming a sponsored skateboarder? Does he know his Real teammates’ trick selections? How is he so prolific on Instagram? And the list goes on.
When Zander sent us these photos of Dan I immediately got excited about interviewing him. Finally Dan could answer some of my queries, and he did, but I also learned a lot more.
Photography by Zander Taketomo
Interview by Will Harmon
I’ve heard that you started skating quite young, and then I know you first learned about having Retinitis Pigmentosa when you were 13, but this eye condition didn’t affect you for a while right? You knew your vision was not like others, but you could still see is that correct?
Yeah 100%, I was still driving and doing everything up to my mid to late twenties. Up to then there was little to no effect in my day-to-day life.
And you moved out to Cali (from Michigan) after high school and worked at a skate shop…
Yeah me and a few friends moved out as soon as I graduated. We lived in like Culver City, Santa Monica, Venice, that whole area and I got a job at this skate/surf/snow shop called ZJ’s, which was super rad. I learned a bunch about the real skateboarding industry and I went to ASR (trade show) and all that stuff.
Yeah I read another interview with you and I remember you saying you were bummed on the skate industry once you got a taste of it. What did you not like?
I was just naïve, I came from a small Michigan skate scene that was super tight and everyone was nice and it didn’t matter what kind of style of skating you had. Then when I moved there to LA some people were kind of harshing some of my friends for like just their style and the clothes they wore. I was just naïve and I didn’t realise it’s a business too you know what I mean?
Frontside bluntslide to fakie, Detroit
Yeah…
Like these companies have to stay open somehow and so yeah, that kind of turned me off. And I always say I probably should have moved to Nor Cal, I probably would have fit in better. But all in all it was still really cool; I had a blast. It was sick to actually see pros out skating for the first time and the level of skating out there is super dope.
Do you remember the first pros you saw in person back then?
Back then no, but I remember the first pro I saw when I was a kid. It was Keith Hufnagel in Chicago and I didn’t even know what a pro skateboarder was back then I was so little. I remember he ollied over this hubba and he was signing autographs at the end. And my stepdad was like, ‘I think that guy’s like a (famous) skater or something?’ Ha ha.
Was this at a demo?
No, he was just out shooting a photo.
Little did you know you’d ride for the same board company as him years later…
I know! Rest in peace Keith.
Huf forever.
I met him again about three years ago at Tampa Pro. So this time I actually got to meet him and shake his hand and stuff. But other than that I used to always see Jeron Wilson out there. I loved his skating and he had my favourite DVS shoe of all time!
Yeah I had a lot of pairs of those in 2004/2005.
Yeah the ones with the Velcro strap!
Ok so at this time, in your twenties, I know you quit skating for a bit and also you became a dad.
Yeah it was a whole whirlwind of stuff… Not being stoked on skating and me just being a little bitch and then having my son and realising that I had to get my shit together. I moved back to Michigan with my lady and then we ended up splitting up so it was just a hectic time in my life at that point.
And at this same time wasn’t your vision deteriorating as well?
Yeah right in that year or two years is when my vision got really bad. It was shitty; that’s when I lost a big chunk of my vision, I became blind in my left eye. And then it just kept getting worse, I still wasn’t skating really, but I was doing the Instagram thing of making random funny videos.
Yeah I saw one of those. You do beer pong and shoot a basketball through the hoop. I think Jenkem embedded it in an interview you did with them. It was pretty amazing all the stuff you were doing.
Yeah that was my first skateboard-related interview, that Jenkem one. That helped a lot… It inspired me to take skateboarding a little more seriously and I started doing it a little more and then I actually started to enjoy it again.
So doing these Instagram vids in a way inspired you to start skating again.
Yeah, I remember it was fall here, and in the Midwest that’s the best time to skate, so I built this bench and I filmed a front board on it and that got shared through what was then the Tony Hawk Foundation, it’s now
The Skatepark Project
, but then that’s when Jenkem hit me up.
Frontside boardslide pop-over from the dirt, Los Angeles
Nice.
And then I filmed like a little line like a crook and a nollie heel or something like that. People were stoked on that so I kind of realised: I think I can do a bit more. So I kept skating and I decided that I wanted to film a full street part. Then I hit up Jim Thiebaud, because Real were always my favourite boards to ride and he freaking sent me a box! Then I was like, ‘oh wow this is really dope!’ So I was getting boards from my favourite company and then I went to work filming a part. I said that I wanted to film a part every year for the next five years. So it kind of just snowballed from there but the really big thing that gave me faith was getting boards from Jim. That was huge.
That’s a huge validation right there.
Yeah just having someone believe in you was a big part of it. That’s kind of how I felt.
And so what was the adjustment like skating again with vastly impaired vision?
It was a big learning experience just having to change how I looked at obstacles and how I skated them. You know I used to skate way different. I used to love skating rails and I liked skating transition quite a bit and I had never really messed around with ledge skating or anything like that. And now that’s become my favourite kind of skating because that’s what I can progress at the most.
Not too different than becoming an older skater, less rails and more ledges and curbs!
Yeah ha ha. The curb epidemic! Everything has lined up just right! But yeah going back to your question about the adjustment, at that time I had a little sliver of vision off in my peripheral and I would use lights at night to guide me to things and different style of obstacles, like shadows helped a lot where I could see a contrast between light and dark and that’s when I filmed my first full part as ‘a blind person’. And then I lost the rest of my vision, I was totally blind and that was scarier than going into what I was skating before. I was like, ‘man am I going to be able to still like do the stuff I wanna do and progress? Is this gonna hold me back?’ And I filmed another thing for Jenkem actually, like
a little skatepark edit
…
I remember watching that, it was really sick!
That was my first time skating with literally no vision. That’s when I started using my little hand technique where I bend down and touch the obstacle. And then at first I didn’t want to use my cane as I thought that was weird. And then I was like, ‘ah I gotta reach down and touch this thing and maybe that’s even weirder. I don’t want to do this,’ and now it’s just become normal, that’s what I have to do. And actually I can be more technical now with that technique.
And so did you start skating again with your old buddies or link with a new crew?
I have two old friends that still like to skate every day and they don’t live in Michigan anymore. But I hit up one of my buddies whose brother still skated and he had a group of friends that were skating a lot and still filming so I linked up with their crew. I met my friend Steve and he films all my shit out here. Shout out to Steve Regish! He’s the best and meeting him was super crucial too to progressing and just being in the streets. And yeah so I slowly began to film with him and we filmed a VX part and he’s just been my dude ever since. He’s been filming Michigan videos forever; I think he’s had a video out every year for the last 11 years in a row.
I spoke to Steve and I asked him if he approached filming you any differently, and he said he did at first, but quickly realised that you were no different than any other skaters, you had your specific spots just like anyone else.
Yeah I used to think that it was different like, ‘oh I gotta find this specific spots for me,’ and Gabe Morford actually was like, ‘that’s everybody!’ (Laughs)
Ollie up to frontside grind, Detroit
Yeah it is!
Everyone’s just got their spots that they like and want to try stuff on. It’s gotta be a little different, but Steve knows me the best, he knows what I like to skate. Paul Shier, he’s got me down pretty good too. He knows what I can actually do shit on.
I mean, imagine me in the van with the Real or adidas dudes, I’m not skating 90% of the spots they go to. I feel weird about that; that’s always a self-conscious thing that I’ve got to get over. Those dudes are so good; I don’t feel like I belong.
I think every sponsored skater has those feelings.
And then I wanted to ask you about mapping the spots out in your head, as I know you go and feel all around the spot before sessioning. You must have an amazing memory no?
Yeah that’s just day-to-day blind stuff. I can go into a restaurant that I haven’t been to in a year and like I know the bathroom is somewhere over there. So I kind of remember stuff like that. With skating I’m kind of in my little 10-15 foot spot. I start really close to an obstacle so I’m maybe one or two pushes away, because for most things that’s how I have to skate them. It’s weird in the streets with getting to an obstacle and using things to guide me to it. Every spot seems to have like a crack or a weird ledge or something like that so I can use that to help me figure where my starting point is and then get to whatever it is I’m getting to.
Ah I see…
I mean the hardest things to film are lines; those things are just so hard to get. A long distance to get something to something is crazy. So for the most part my lines are a flatground trick and then a trick on an obstacle. And it’s rare you find a ledge that’s 100 feet long where I can just skate it and guide myself easily. That’s the biggest thing I miss, throwing my board down and going to the corner store. That’s what I used to love; cruising the streets in Cali and popping off curb cuts and stuff but I can’t do that so much anymore but you know you just figure it out. A lot of things aren’t accessible for me to skate like, ‘man if it was 20 years ago I would have loved this spot but I just can’t do it.’
Yeah you’ll experience that getting older anyways.
I do wish I went blind when I was 18 because I would have been jumping down more shit for sure!
Well your
flatbar skills are incredible
. I mean you do some pretty tech stuff on them… How did you master them like you have?
I’ve always loved a round bar. I liked 50-50ing round bars and round rails growing up. I don’t know they just feel the best. 50-50ing round bars is just the best feeling to me. And it’s something that I can get more technical on. I can’t jump down rails so it’s like, ‘how am I going to progress as a skateboarder?’ So ledges and flatbars are the most accessible thing for me. Bars are usually longer when they’re in the streets and ledges are usually like 8-foot long and that’s too short for me. By the time I find it and figure it out I’m already past it. I always just loved the round bars; square ones are so hard for me to lock in.
Pop shove-it 50-50, Detroit
What about the slams? You take some gnarly ones; didn’t you
break your collarbone
?
Yeah
in Puerto Rico
this past February. I’m just about healed up here, but I’m still a little stiff. That was my gnarliest injury; I had never broken anything before that. I was doing this taildrop into this steep bank, it’s on my Instagram, and I just stuck at the top. What I was taildropping off of came to a point like a triangle, so my tail couldn’t lie flat on the top so I had to push my board down and I couldn’t like tail pop off of it. So I just stuck and my hand kind of hit the ground but I didn’t brace and so it went straight to the shoulder and I felt it pop. So I had to fly home the next morning with a broken collarbone because the hospitals there were just insane. So yeah I’ve just been recovering from that. I hate getting hurt. When I don’t skate for three or four days I get set back more than the average person I think.
So how often do you skate?
Every day I can. Right now it’s every other day at the moment because I’ve been getting sore as I’m just getting back into it. But yeah I have a good flatbar in my backyard and I’m gonna get a ledge put in. The flatbar is 18-feet long, but that’s still a little short. So I’ll have that in the backyard because it’s hard for me to go a lot of places because I got to Uber everywhere. So it’s
like 60 bucks to go skate the park!
Do you break your canes skating a lot?
Yeah I go through those a lot. I try to buy cheaper ones.
Do you have a separate one for skating?
Yeah for sure, it’s a little shorter than my normal cane and a cheaper material. They’re usually aluminium ones so they get bent and crooked and I have to bend them back. You go through the tips, the end of them, so you replace those. I’ve broken one the first time I skated with it, but they usually last about three months.
So it’s almost like changing up your worn out skate shoes?
Yeah exactly and it’s weird you have to break them in too. They’re real stiff and awkward at first and it feels heavy, but yeah
I throw a bunch of stickers on them… I’m still waiting on the cane sponsor though!
So how has your life changed since getting sponsored by Real and adidas?
Everything’s changed as far as having companies believe in me and that’s helped me believe in myself more and push myself. I feel that I’m just at the tip of the iceberg of what I could do. But like I said, I wish I was 18 and I had 20 more years of really hard skating. (Editor’s note: Dan is currently 34 years old) But yeah I’ve just been stoked and I really want to push myself in my actual skating. Other than that it’s a dream come true, the childhood dream of what I always wanted to do. To full-time skate is amazing but also both super boring sometimes because all my friends are at work!
A lot of pros and sponsored skaters go through that. No one to skate with on Tuesday at midday: everyone’s working! But also now it’s kind of your job to get clips and stuff right?
Yeah it’s a little more pressure. I find myself putting a little more pressure on myself and I get more pissed out there, but it’s good.
I got a part coming out with the photos from this soon. And then I have a second part I’ve been working on and building up.
So how has your experience been with the skate industry this time around? Because I know you were a bit bummed about it before when you lived in Cali.
It’s been nothing but good man. It’s been all positive. I mean I just got aligned with the right people like Jim (Thiebaud); he’s the greatest.
He is the best human isn’t he?
Yep! Him and Paul (Shier) are the two greatest humans and Jim just makes me want to be a better person you know what I mean?
Yeah I agree.
I just want to do my best for those dudes.
And then I wanted to ask this, you probably would have remembered Dennis Busenitz’s skating from when you could watch his video parts, so what is it like hanging out with him now compared to the rest of the Real team whose video parts you’ve probably not ever seen?
Yeah I feel so shitty, but I have no idea who 90% of the skaters are nowadays or what they skate. It’s only the people I’ve been on trips with that I kind of know their skating. It’s super weird and awkward, I hate it, but the OGs are the best you know! It was cool to meet Dennis; it was still intimidating. He is the definition of skateboarding; it’s what he is.
On
your HoneyDew podcast interview
, which I listened to the other day, you said you didn’t touch people’s faces and shit, like that was a stereotype sighted people have about blind people, or it at least you never did it, but then what I thought was cool is that Zander (Taketomo) said that you feel out the spot even though you couldn’t skate it. He mentioned Bobby Worrest skating this rail in Detroit.
Yeah every spot we go to I always check it out just to see how gnarly it is. Like with the Real dudes, the first time they came to Detroit Hermann (Stene) 50ed this big doublekink and hearing that, like I had never even heard someone skate a rail like that so that was fucking dope. So yeah I love to know what the spot is, I always check it out and sometimes I feel the spot because maybe I might be able to skate it in a different way you know what I mean?
Yeah…
I might not have Bobby’s pop but maybe I can hit something underneath it or something, ha ha.
When I look at your Instagram it seems that you’re doing a lot of things you’d think a blind person wouldn’t do (skiing, ice skating, fishing, ice fishing). Is this stuff you were into before you lost your vision or new hobbies?
Some are new; some are old. When I first lost my sight I was trying to search for what a blind person can do or does. Even as far as going to school at a university and finding a job. And after becoming more independent and comfortable with myself and blindness and having more self-confidence and getting cane training and O&M (Orientation and Mobility) skills I realised that I just needed to search for what I wanted to do. Because otherwise you’re not going to be happy you know? So it’s just showing my life… A lot of blind people just do whatever they like to do. It’s not any different than anyone else in life really and that’s what I try to show. I try to show that through what I do. I’m not special or anything, I just want to do me. You shouldn’t treat me any differently or anything like that so that’s the main message.
I like the skit you did with Steve (Regish) about watching sports with a blind person. You seem to have a good sense of humour about it all.
I try to be as light-hearted and laugh at it as much as I can because it is stressful, it is annoying 90% of the time so when you can laugh about it that’s good. There’s a bunch more skits coming too!
Nice. Other blind skaters, you know a few right?
Justin Bishop, he’s the best. Him and another blind skater Nick Mullins, who actually grew up really close to me, they’re all coming in town for Go Skateboarding Day and we’re all gonna be shredding together.
That sounds sick.
Yeah we should have some good videos and stuff to share.
Have a lot of other blind skateboarders reached out to you?
Yeah dude tons! They’re all over the world. There’s a sick guy in Spain
@the_blind_rider
(Marcello Lusardi), who’s one of the first ones I saw, him and Nick, those dudes rip. And another guy in Japan who kills it. But yeah that’s another cool thing with the gram, just getting in touch with people like that.
And I know there are voice capabilities on smartphones that can read all the captions for you.
Yeah I run everything through that. I run it all and I always message people through that. So feel free to hit me up
(
@danthemancina
), it is me!
My Twitter
and
YouTube
accounts it’s all ‘danthemancina’ across the board.
And you do your own podcasts as well right?
Yeah the podcast is pretty fun. It’s called
Insighted with Dan Mancina
. I gotta get more guests on there, but I’m learning. I’ll have Justin and Nick on there when they come in town.
Dan Mancina. Los Angeles, 2021
On your Insta you have a lot of informational stuff about being blind like how you cook and stuff like that. Is that a way to answer all the questions you get?
It’s from all the questions. I’m just trying to shed some light and really just keep pushing that message of like you know… People don’t think I can do the most basic things, you know what I mean? So just keep pushing that message of yeah I’m just an average person, yeah I have to do things a little differently, but I think people enjoy them you know?
It’s quite educational. I mean for myself I don’t have any blind friends so I’ve learned a lot through your Instagram.
Yeah going into the blind world I didn’t know anybody. Same thing, I never grew up with anybody that was blind and that’s how most people are: they have no idea or any kind of reference.
You went to grad school for Vision Rehabilitation Therapy is that correct?
Yep!
Do you do some teaching now?
Yeah I’m certified to do all that stuff, but I’m just strictly skating right now. And those are a lot of the things I share, the informational stuff, it’s stuff I’ve picked up from my studies and through my life. I was starting to do a bunch of workshops with visually impaired kids and skating, so I used it then, but I don’t work as a VRT (Vision Rehabilitation Therapist) in the field in the traditional sense.
It’s something I guess you could fall back on though…
Yeah skating doesn’t last forever so that’s why I finished school so I’ll have that one day… It’s a cool laid back field that pretty much teaches everything about independence. If someone needs help like trying to figure out how to change the oil on their lawnmower or learning how to cut the grass we develop skills and ways to do everything around the house.
And you’ve started a foundation to make one of the first adaptive skateparks is that right?
Yep,
Keep Pushing
is my non-profit. It’s from when I first started skating realising that all the skateparks I’ve been to I could only skate certain things in it. And like I said the ledges are often really short. So the idea is to
build a park
. I have plans and everything and I’m just starting to raise money for it. I have a little piece of land I bought next to my house and I want to build it there. And then I’ll fly kids out who are visually impaired for a long weekend and I’ll teach skating and also use all that VRT stuff I learned too to just stoke them out and teach them how to live independently. And then from there, whenever people are building parks I could consult on that. Like, ‘hey you could do this to make it more accessible,’ a couple simple things. And we’re trying to get the first full-on public adaptive park built in Florida. I’ve been working with
New Line Skatepark Design
firm on that.
Taildrop, Los Angeles
That’ll be sick.
That’s why we did the raised braille board for Real. The proceeds went to the foundation. And I think we’re going to do another one this winter, we’re trying to figure it out.
So a couple new parts coming out, the foundation, anything else in the pipeline?
I’m just trying to keep the street parts going as long as I can, keep progressing and there’s a bunch of stuff I still want to do. And then the big thing this year is to try and get that park built in the yard for Keep Pushing and then yeah just looking forward to things opening up and to travel man. I’m also on the USA committee for adaptive sports and we’re trying to get skateboarding into the Paralympics in 2028. So that’s why I’ve been doing the contest stuff a bit more, which is super stressful! I’m just trying to grow that and get more blind skateboarders out there and keep working towards that goal.
At this point I thanked Dan for taking the time to do the interview. He was really appreciative and told me if I needed anything else just to hit him up. It struck me how much of a nice person he was, very easy to talk to, kind, forthcoming and I felt like we could have gone on for another hour as there was so much to talk about. ‘Just DM me, I’m here,’ he said. And then I thought about how amazing it was that social media is what got him back into skating once he became visually impaired. Instagram is a platform that he can’t see, he uses it differently than the rest of us, yet it’s one of his primary forms of communication and main outlets to appease his many fans and followers. Skateboarding is not all about visuals, you can hear it and feel it; it’s a full body experience. Thank you Dan for reminding us of that.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  January 24, 2022
Jupiter, Jupiter
Words and photography by Olly Todd. Printed in issue 39.
We were following the back roads from Ybor City to downtown Tampa. We kept having to pick up our boards and walk because the potholed old road was mostly unskateable and there were no pavements. We were hungover and out of water and the late-morning sun was wearying. No soul was around save the odd scrawny cat, lying in the shade of a parked car or house porch whose edges flaked with rot.
We were booked on the 12:15 train to Miami. We’d have to hurry. My companion Blake was no hurrier. Blake had this trick where he’d zoom his board towards a parked car tyre before jumping back onto it and tic-tacking away as it was bounced back to him by the taught rubber.
‘Check it out,’ he said, and rolled his board towards an old red sedan. Only this time it didn’t bounce back. It stayed lodged in the tear it had made. The sedan’s left rear end collapsed with a loud hiss.
‘You little punks, what the…’ A fat shirtless man had burst through the rattling screen door of his timber bungalow and was coming for us. Blake was wiggling his board loose from beneath the deflated wheel.
‘Shiiit!’ We were on our boards and pushing before he reached us, grateful of a rare smooth patch of road with a slight incline that lent a surge of speed to our flight. I didn’t look back but I swear I heard a shotgun cocking. Or allowed myself to believe I did because I was in America and that’s the kind of noise the movies tell you you should hear in these situations.
In Tampa we found the Amtrak Station and went to the ticket desk. Our team manager had booked our tickets online in the hotel last night but he was as drunk as we were so I harboured little hope they would actually materialise. The station’s main room was cool and enormous and adorned in original wood and brass fittings. The floor was an autumnal mosaic in glazed tile. How America retains the grace and integrity of its public spaces through the decades. This hasn’t been the interior design du jour since the fifties, yet here it was still, unchanged and unapologetic. Why does Britain feel compelled to remodel its civic spaces so often, replacing wood with plastic; taste with tat; legacy with lethargy?
‘Ok boys that’s all in order. Now if you’d just like to follow the signs there’s a Greyhound bus’ll take you on to Fort Pierce for y’all’s connecting Miami train.’
‘Bus but,’ I began.
‘Yeah ‘fraid we’re fixing up the tracks out here so.’
‘Sir does the bus go through Auburndale?’ Blake asked.
‘Sure does son. Why, you got some unfinished business?’
Blake was staring through the window as the Greyhound turned off the parkway and on through Ybor’s dusty backstreets, retracing our steps from earlier that morning. Following his gaze I saw the owner of the old sedan pumping furiously on a car jack, beer can disappearing over his shoulder.
‘I’m getting off in Auburndale,’ Blake said.
‘What about Miami? Cody said tonight’s the deadline.’
‘I’m getting off in Auburndale.’
The Greyhound exited the 4-freeway with the piston puff and sibilance of any large vehicle shifting down gears. The AC blew louder now the engine made less noise, and had cooled to a chill the film of sweat that covered me. I turtled my arms through my t-shirt sleeves and warmed their cold skin on my sides. Blake stood up and grabbed his rucksack and skateboard from the overhead rack as the bus reversed into a lakeside car park. He jokily offered one of those cupped-palm, jockish handshakes that I accepted once I’d wriggled a hand free.
He was across the cypress lawns and onto the lake path with a bowlegged canter, one hand holding up his sagging trousers, one digging around in his rucksack whose handle he held in his teeth. He re-shouldered his rucksack and adjusted the peak of his cap before opening the beer he had located and lighting a cigarette. Which little lake was this, Hamilton, Ruby, Mariam, Lulu? Dexter, Daisy, Fox?
The Greyhound passed dozens of such lakes before reaching the Kissimmee Chain, which appeared like an ocean. Beyond it the terrain grew greener and I saw a few gators on the edge of a nature reserve, their bandy limbs caked in sunbaked grey mud. The sun was high and gleaming white and the road ahead rippled in its heat.
Fort Pierce train station was a two-track with no platforms. My fellow passengers had alighted the Greyhound and were gathering around a tall uniformed woman who talked loudly and quickly about tickets. She led her little band of travellers to the waiting train whose arrival’s wake of raised dust had apparently refused to settle. We handed over our tickets and boarded by way of box steps.
‘Alright I’m looking for a Fort Lauderdale fourteen B, Fort Lauderdale, thank you sir.’ The inspector was marching through the train checking tickets, tearing and clipping them in place above seats.
She arrived at my seat. ‘Alright I’m looking for a West Palm Beach, West Palm Beach eighteen A.’
‘Miami,’ I said.
‘You’re in the wrong seat sir,’ she barked.
‘I just wanted to sit by the window, this seat was free.’
‘Not my problem pal, now find the correct seat.’
From the left side of the carriage a ponytailed guy about my age stood up and said, ‘Hey can he have my seat miss?’
‘You going to Miami? Well sure you two lovebirds have fun. Fort Lauderdale 22A, Fort Lauderdale? Jupiter, Jupiter…’
I nodded my appreciation to the ponytail guy and gathered my stuff. I got resettled and found my earphones. The window of my new seat faced east – so would soon reveal Atlantic views – and was already showcasing grid upon grid of orange groves as the train pulled out of the station and gathered speed. Songs for leaving stations… Running Up That Hill’s opening drums kicked in and I sank back into the armchair-like seat. It was a great seat. Much better than the one I’d tried to take, which evidently was now travelling backwards and facing west. A voice said, ‘It’s clear enough so as we’ll see Grand Bahama when we reach West Palm Beach.’
‘Sorry?’ I said, removing an earphone. It was the ponytail guy, poking his head into the aisle. His new seat – my allocated one – was four down from me facing backwards on the aisle.
‘The island. Couldn’t help noticing you staring out the window like you lost something.’
‘Cool.’
He wanted conversation. I wanted music and ocean views. Just then I felt the urge to make a gesture to repay his seat offer. Yesterday we’d demoed in Daytona for the local skateshop and the manager had given us all souvenir t-shirts. I rummaged in my bag.
‘Hey mate, do you want this as a thank you for my seat?’ I said, dangling the green shirt across the aisle. Its graphic was a gaudy cartoon hippo on a skateboard.
‘Wow, thanks so much man. It was just a seat dude; this is too awesome.’
He immediately removed his own t-shirt and donned the gift, smiling. The Atlantic Coast was coming into view. I suddenly felt profoundly hungry and got up to find the dining car. The lunch service was just about to close so, while I was able to order food, I’d have to eat it at my seat. I got a hamburger with Swiss and bacon, and a PBR. Back at my seat I unwrapped the food and placed the tray on the seat next to me. Ponytail guy reached across the aisle and snatched the wrapper.
‘413 calories,’ he said, squinting at the gold foil.
‘Look man I…’
‘You really oughta consider cutting this stuff outta your diet man.’
‘Okaay,’ I said.
‘Yeah in fact you should do the cleanse, first, to prepare yourself and then just go full airtarian, like me. The cleanse – the master cleanse – is two weeks of nothing but maple syrup, water and cayenne pepper. I’ll send you the recipes you should give me your email. What are you Australian? The raw cleanse is good too. Maybe that one would be better for you actually. It’s just raw vegetables and fruit for four weeks. Nothing cooked. Do you know what a freegan is? I used to be one; you hang around restaurant terraces for customers to leave and then you eat what they leave on their plate before the wait staff clear up. The idea is you never spend money on food. Airtarians sleep a lot to conserve energy but they never have to eat, ever. All we need is air!’ His rant ended triumphantly and his eyes were wide.
‘Sounds good mate. I’m just gonna…’
I said, gesturing towards my burger, now getting cold.
‘No, sure, go ahead.’ He sloped back into his seat and out of my eyeline. I got back to my lunch, opening the Coke-can-size can of beer, and turned back to the Atlantic horizon. The contemplative reverie I was expecting the view to inspire was absent. In its place were mental snapshots of the Miami skate spots I remembered from videos.
My hangover was entering its late afternoon peak. The last thing I wanted to do was skate tonight but I was already forming a spot list in my head.
The train arrived into Miami Central at nine. Night had fallen. Cody had messaged to say he would be late so there was little else for me to do but sit on my board on the curb and wait. After the air conditioned train the tropical night air was oppressively hot and still. The last of the passengers were emerging from the terminus, activating their vehicles’ remote locks and sending the train station’s street-lit car park into a frenzy of flashing and beeping.
It came as no surprise to Cody to see that Blake wasn’t with me, and although he explained his behaviour away with words like capricious and spontaneous, they only thinly veiled his disappointment. The original filming deadline for his new video had come and gone causing issues with funding, and this latest setback would only serve to further exasperate the project’s sponsors.
We pulled out of the station car park and stopped at a T-junction red light hung high on a wire above the road. The signs for downtown pointed left but Cody’s right indicator was ticking and we were soon driving slowly through a deserted warehouse district. The eerie quiet was punctuated by the rattle and dissipating horns of trains chugging along an old network of iron bridges. It was a locale that reeked of skate spots. Skate spots of the gritty-city aesthetic Cody and I held in such high regard and by which his videos were characterised.
‘Yeah it’s like this weird metal loading dock on hydraulics but I know where the button is.’ Cody was describing the spot to which he was currently driving us; I’d zoned out a bit. There was a stop sign at the corner of every block and the constant jolts in motion were making me carsick.
‘You can make it into a kicker, as steep as you want,’ he said. ‘You’ll love it.’
You’ll love it; filmers and photographers said this based on the things you’d skated in previous videos and I hated hearing it. I hated hearing it because there are few statements more freighted with the pressure to perform. I needed an excuse. Would the hangover wash? I could try it I thought. Cody pulled the car over behind a haulage place and we got out. The cracked blacktop gave way to a pad of smooth grey concrete into which were set two yellow non-slip metal platforms each about the size of a classroom desk. I didn’t see where Cody went but he must have located the control panel because with a whine one of the platforms began to tilt upwards. The angle was perfect. I got my board out of the boot and started skating around.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 13, 2023
Skating and Writing towards Mental Wellbeing
Brian Anderson’s journals Ph. Brian Anderson
Skating and Writing towards Mental Wellbeing
Words by Sam Buchan-Watts
Brian Anderson’s SMiLe film
for
the Ben Raemers Foundation,
released in October of last year, is striking for many reasons. It’s one of the most recent in a series of powerful,
pensive documentary shorts
commissioned by the Foundation in which pro skaters generously open up about their experience of mental health issues and the ways in which they are exacerbated – and ameliorated – by elements of skateboarding life. Most memorably, perhaps, is Anderson’s statement that for almost as long as he was a pro skater, the question of his sexuality was ‘a black box in an aeroplane […] it is never going to be opened until I crash’.
His notebooks, shared in the film, tell a different story. If Anderson felt reservation about articulating certain difficult experiences in conversation, his long-established habit of filling journals and sketchbooks with drawings, fragmented thoughts and other scraps of ephemera offer a rich, liberated world of interior expression. Like skateboarding itself, a journal becomes a space through which to channel feelings that can be hard to bear in other forms.
Brian Anderson’s journals Ph. Brian Anderson
Both skateboarding and journaling involve a practice, a discipline, and (often) their own unique language, illegible to much of the outside world: this can give our conversations about skateboarding, or the dialogue we have with ourselves between the covers of a journal, a clandestine quality. Talking among skaters can feel safe, in the words of
John Rattray
(more on him in a minute), like ‘us, together versus the world’. When I spoke to Anderson recently about journaling, he talked about the time he spends on the subway to and from Queens doodling and writing on little squares of paper small enough to fit in his back-pocket, as though to carve out a portable space to collect his thoughts. The practice offers, he said, a disarming presence in a notoriously frenetic public zone, arousing curiosity from his fellow passengers (particularly in contrast to the typically standoffish smartphone scroll).
In a recent piece for Skate Jawn, the poet, psychotherapist and skater Matt L Roar says that writing and skating share an ability to make conversation and, in that, to build community too. Notwithstanding the complex and beautiful ways that skate film conveys and conditions skating, writing’s ability to reflect our internal lives and (in the words of the poet Wallace Stevens) the movement of a ‘mind in the act of finding / What will suffice’ may lend itself to capturing the uniquely intimate relation each skater has with skateboarding. And what’s more, when you’re making lists of tricks or lines for a video part or poring over skate mags’ suggestive relation between caption and tour photo or conversing with your friends in the ever-developing jargon that we use to name this extraordinary activity you are drawing from a set of language skills, skills that could be applied to other areas of life: whether that’s writing a poem, a letter, or checking in on a friend.
Brian Anderson’s journals Ph. Brian Anderson
Although skateboarding has historically been an emphatically visual medium centred around film and photography, it is, in quieter ways, a verbal one too. From a staging of Shakespeare’s
A Midsummer Night’s Dream
at the Grove DIY skatepark in 2022 to Walker Ryan’s character-driven fiction and Matt L Roar’s prose poems about adolescent intimacy and annihilation in skateboarding’s potent nineties era, the verbal and literary character of skateboarding has been made especially audible in recent years. As somebody who grew up skating a beach shelter which was (unbeknown to me at the time) used
to ruminate in nearly a century earlier by a modernist poet
I went on in my literature PhD, I have often found equivalences in the way that skateboarding and poetry coincide around formal elements like line and rhythm, along with harder-to-define notions like ambiguity, contingency and style. As Olly Todd points out in a recent piece reflecting on his poetry collection Out for Air, which is scored with the subterranean rhythms of the author’s skating in LA and San Francisco, references to skating in English poetry can be traced back at least as far as William Wordsworth, who captured the fleeting sensation of moving ‘across the reflex of a star / That gleamed upon the ice’.
Brian Anderson’s journals Ph. Brian Anderson
Much
recent work
has evidenced the therapeutic elements of skate life and its sensations, fleeting and otherwise. Through the repetitive actions of skating we may be unconsciously learning to negotiate stress and build resilience and foster empathy. I’m sure you have your own list too. And it’s possible that writing about skating has its own virtues of this kind. John Rattray has used both
the interview form
(a mainstay of skate discourse) to share the load of hard subjects and the comic book (which, like a skateboarding mag, twists the verbal and visual into playful relation) to explore his ‘Why So Sad?’ initiative to increase awareness of mental well-being in skating. Indeed, the project is named using a piece of skating wordplay: the melon grab has melancholic origins, given its relation to the sad plant.
John’s video comic
blends the language of psychology, neuroanatomy and the more creative elements of storytelling and myth to dramatize the ways in which a young John suffered without having a language to describe the disassociate states and experiences of depression he was undergoing after a less-than-perfect childhood and how skating can help to sooth, regulate and even recalibrate the mind.
Brian Anderson’s journals Ph. Brian Anderson
A series of workshops I’ve programmed with
the Ben Raemers Foundation
, beginning online on 28 June and running weekly every Wednesday until the 26 July, will look at other ways in which the literature of skateboarding might be redirected towards difficult conversations around mental health and wellbeing. Each session will centre on a mode of writing that intersects with skate culture, featuring a special guest who will discuss their experience. Brian Anderson will be exploring journaling, Matt L Roar the poetic memoir, Dani Albuhawa will consider performance and creativity, Jacob Sawyer and Walker Ryan will compare methods of building characters by drawing from their respective experience in interviewing and the novel. These sessions will build towards a session on zine-making – it’s no surprise that localist and anarchist propensities of zines underpin much of skateboarding’s print culture – in which participants will have the opportunity to publish their work. Sessions will include conversation with each guest and a creative writing exercise to prompt some original writing. While it is important to recognise that writing is never a substitute for therapy, it can be a place to find, to store, perhaps to open the black box – and most importantly it is, as these Zoom sessions intend to be, a place to share.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 23, 2024
Jante – 8:33
Photography by Sam Ashley
Words by Axel Lindquist
Times change as time changes.
In 1818 Sweden got a Queen from Marseille. In fact, her husband was also French, hence our present-day king being a direct descendant of France. This always makes Filip slightly uneasy going to France, having to show his passport with its many royal crowns makes him anxious about being ridiculed by the airport staff, knowing that Sweden found a French king to be the most fit to rule the country. But this time Filip had other stuff to think about.
We had a big crew this trip: Gustav Tønnesen, Simon Hallberg, Marius Syvanen, Nisse Ingemarsson, Tyler Surrey, Axel Berggren, Tom Snape, Vincent Huhta-Hasselberg, Martin Sandberg, Eric Hedberg and Filip Almqvist. For the first time a crew big enough for Jante to deserve a TM, with Fritte being the only dedicated filmer. Sam Ashley showed up in his best swagger, literally having girls running after him.
Gustav Tønnesen, switch ollie
“Marseille is the best city of France, because it’s the least French of French cities,” the cab driver greeted me with, leaving the airport. The city was blooming, late spring, early summer. A wind strong enough to relocate the Sahara Desert was blowing, and had decorated the neighbourhood where we stayed with line-dried underwear. “Keep an eye out,” we were told. “Things are on the move, and they’re moving fast.” And though the thieves of La Plaine might really have been our biggest concern, our lives were actually at risk dodging flower pots falling off the windows in the alleyways. At night the mosquitos sucked our blood and at day the pollen of the trees kept attacking our eyes. Flies flew into our mouths, and dogs put us in theirs. The whining of pigeons and the moaning of cats. The menacing company of rats.
Filip Almqvist, switch backside tailslide
Hôtel de ville de Marseille, the city’s Town Hall, is one of a few buildings in the area that managed to be saved from destruction in 1943. But the surroundings had to be rebuilt, hence today we skate Place Villeneuve-Bargemon.
While Fritte was getting overworked filming in the sun the crew took shade under the tree, Tyler playing chess, Martin reading his lecture notes and Filip constantly on a phone call. The previous night Axel Berggren had decided to amputate one of his toes with a pan, so now he pushed through the heat with his heel like an elephant. When suddenly
the local mayor
and his colleagues showed up to the spot, Fritte and Axel were so exhausted they spoke in half sentences. But so do the French of course, hence soon they all skated and filmed together.
Nisse Ingemarsson, gap to noseslide
Skateboarding: an experience both transnational and transgenerational. The locals we skated with, who we at first only knew by their Insta-names, were so hip and cool that Nisse got all nervous, rocking their Holden Caulfield-hats and ironic attitude. But the kids are alright, and the kids have been alright. Two decades earlier we had Tony Trujillo skate Marseille rocking corpse paint, and back then it felt only rad and nothing else. Further, Tony apparently did this as a homage to Mayhem, his favourite band at the time, after reading about the Norwegian black metal scene in
Lords of Chaos
. This comes to show why Filip should not stress this national identity thing, as it is completely arbitrary anyway, with for example Norwegian influence being both church-burning metal and Gustav’s soft approach to art. Apparently.
Gustav Tønnesen, one-foot frontside boardslide
Up the hills on our way back to the apartment in the evening everyone showed off their original limping, what they are willing to pay to skate. Reynolds was only 32 when he finished filming for
Stay Gold
. One might think that the older guard would be limping worse. After all, Marius and Tyler have been skating together since before Simon and Axel could even walk in the first place. But in reality there seems to be a process of bodily consolidation happening when skateboarding long enough. As if the body is not broken down, but rebuilt to do skateboarding. Homo Cylindro. This would explain the level of skateboarding taking place looking more natural than walking. When you are watching the clip from this trip then don’t be fooled into thinking you also could ollie up that little staircase.
Nisse Ingemarsson, wallride
Even though blood and sweat was shed by everyone, the tears were left behind. “It is important to have fun,” Vincent said, and took a day off from work to go skate. And if you have not been skating there
are still ways to make yourself limp. You can for example consume whatever is offered over the counter at the back alley Reggae bar. Back at the apartment at night we heard some strange noises from the kitchen, and it turns out that someone puked and slipped in his own vomit. They say not to meet your heroes, but if you are going to act like that then maybe don’t let your heroes meet you.
Simon Hallberg, crooked grind
In the 13th century, before Reggae bars and knowing each other by Insta-names, the space of what is today the local square and skate spot of ‘La Plaine’, or Place Jean-Jaurès as it is actually named, was used as an encampment for the crusaders on their way to the Holy Land. One can play with the thought of how these crusaders would have reacted if someone had told them that 800 years later people would do something called ‘nollie heel nosegrind’, and that it is significant if it’s done on the middle part of the bench or not. Either way the spot has a long-standing tradition of hosting foreign, self-entitled, fanatics. But instead of mapping out land grabbing, today they’re skating handrails and freestyling instead. I’m biased of course, but I beg the latter to be the better option.
Tyler Surrey, frontside hurricane
While filming at La Plaine some kids wanted to get in on the spot, climbing up on the ledge. Though we managed to keep the thieves away, suddenly I was approached by a dad who tried to get into our wallets.
“Share the space – share the money!” he shouts.
“What?”
He approached us rubbing his fingers, reading my usual disconcerted face.
“You make money doing this right? And you tell my daughter not to play here. Share the space or share the money.”
I could shut his argument with good conscience. “Sorry. There is no money being made doing this, if that matters.” – thinking of Erik Hedberg who charmed his better half to treat them to a weekend in Marseille. Just so he could get his clips.
“I just asked her to watch out,” I tried again.
Martin Sandberg, ride-on backside nosegrind
Meanwhile, Filip was getting nervous by all this. He stressed about getting his line, but then again, the dad had a point. This is also marketing content done in a public space. It’s just a dad looking out for the rights of his kid. The question is just if he would rather have us rent and close off the whole plaza. The dad obviously didn’t know that you can’t beat the enterprise.
“Where’s the fucking hype!?” Marius added to the discussion, Filip growing all the more quiet. He really needed to get his line, then rush back to the apartment, pack his bags and go home early. By the time you’ll be reading this, he’ll have his own kid to look after.
Marius Syvanen, frontside 5-0

================================================================================

BY Will  •  December 18, 2023
S-O-S: Spitfire x Samurai in Italy
﻿
Photography by Sam Ashley
Words by Will Harmon
‘Wow look at those spots!’ was the first thing I thought whilst looking through Sam Ashley’s photos of the recent Spitfire x Samurai trip through Italy. ‘Jacopo really has the whole country mapped out’ I thought to myself. Apparently, the young Italian has a map with thousands of pins connected to skate spots throughout Italy. Eager to find out more, we thought it would be best to have a little catch up with Mr Carozzi.
Jacopo Carozzi, kickflip, ‎⁨Lignano Sabbiadoro⁩
I pinned down (pun intended) Jacopo one late-September morning for a Facetime chat. He was at home, in Milan, and he told me that this Spitfire trip was organised by his pals at Samurai Distribution. You may have heard of Samurai from seeing one of their
Samurai Safari
edits. The
Safari trips
, set up by the distributor, consist of travelling around Italy with the squad in the summer, hitting predominantly unknown terrain and camping along the way. A good portion of the spots they’d hit were discovered by Jacopo’s many hours of Google Street View research.
Harry Lintell, backside tailslide, ‎⁨Coriano⁩
‘I have known Gio (Grazzani), who is basically the main guy at Samurai, since I was super young. He’s been running Dumb skateboards for probably 15 years.’ Jacopo told me. ‘I would always see him around; like we used to skate together and all that stuff. And then one day he started this little distribution company that was mostly
Lowcard
,
Thrasher
, and just a bunch of little brands. When I got on Baker, I knew that these guys were like full-on skaters… I’ve been dealing with a lot of the distributors in Italy, and even if a bunch of them are actually skaters, eventually they turn into being serious businessmen, no matter what. And so I knew that if Gio were to start these projects, he would be like 100% in it for skaters and skateboarding, you know what I mean?’
Charlie Birch, backside nosepick, ‎⁨Lignano Sabbiadoro⁩
Jacopo went on to tell me that he convinced Andrew (Reynolds) to let Samurai start distributing Baker, Deathwish, Shake Junt, etc., then more recently this led to Samurai distributing Deluxe’s brands.
‘Basically since Samurai started distributing all the DLX stuff, Gio was already thinking about doing a trip with the guys.’ he said. It was becoming clear that Samurai wasn’t your typical skate distributor. Not only do they distribute some of the best, core skate brands in Italy and organise trips for their riders, but apparently the crew designs skateparks as well. Sam told me that on the trip, early in the morning, whilst most people were still asleep, the Samurai guys would be up working on their laptops designing skateparks. Plus they’d still manage to join in on the skate sessions later in the day… These guys were really grinding (literally and figuratively) to make it and this got me stoked. But there was one thing that Jacopo mentioned that had himself, his friends and the Samurai guys all really worried: Decathlon.
Daan van der Linden, backside tailslide, Bologna
Decathlon, the multi-million pound business with 2000 stores in 56 countries across five continents is getting into the skateboard business. ‘I didn’t really know anything about it before I saw it on the
Thrasher
website. And I spoke with some of my friends about it, and yeah, it just seems like it’s gonna be like a full skate shop kind of thing, which is pretty gnarly, because it’s gonna kill all the little smaller shops or businesses.’ Jacopo said. I told him I had seen the Decathlon ad featuring Adrien Bulard as well. He continued: ‘When I saw that clip, I was like, “really?” And there’s an Italian guy, Ale Mazzara, who skates vert mostly, who actually just signed a contract with those guys… I’m not gonna lie to you, we all knew that this kind of shit was gonna happen with skateboarding getting into the Olympics, you know what I mean?’ After a quick check on Decathlon’s website I found that they were indeed selling skate brands I’d heard of; brands I was surprised that were on there. ‘The thing that I’m worried about is that since Decathlon is so big, they’re probably gonna make big orders…’ Jacopo said, ‘So they’re gonna pay a little less for all the products compared to a smaller skate distribution company. And so they’re probably gonna sell it for like five euros less than any skate shop. So of course, people are going to be pushed to go to the Decathlon to buy less expensive skate products.’ It wasn’t really of any concern when they were selling low-quality toy-store skateboard products for beginners, but when ‘legit’ brands sell to Decathlon I agreed that it was indeed a worry.
Victor ‘Doobie’ Pellegrin, frontside feeble grind, Senigallia⁩
‘I just don’t understand why you would step into the skateboarding business knowing that you’re gonna kill all the fucking small shops.’ said Jacopo.
I asked him what the Samurai guys thought about all of this. ‘They are very worried about it. First of all, because so much is going on with the price of products and stuff… Like especially the cost of maintaining a distribution. So, for example, a Baker board sells at a skate shop for €90. It’s a lot compared to how it used to be, say, like, six, seven years ago when you could buy a board for 50 bucks with grip. I don’t really know how to explain it, but I’m worried skateboarding is kind of becoming a rich kid’s sport.
So yeah, it’s kind of gnarly right now. And skate shops can’t afford to place big orders and stuff. So yeah, it’s kinda tough… And that’s why Samurai is mostly focusing on building skateparks at the moment.’
Daan van der Linden, backside 360 ollie, Lignano Sabbiadoro⁩
I quipped that ‘it’s actually the responsibility of the brands to not sell to these big box stores like Decathlon if they care about the longevity of these smaller, core skate shops.’ Jacopo agreed and said, ‘The problem is that you can’t really do much about it. And
I know they have to put food on the table, but I mean, like, how can you? It is what it is… At the end of the day, whoever has the most money is gonna fucking win.’
Alex Borgetti, backside smith grind, Bologna
All this talk of Decathlon kneecapping the Italian skate industry was pretty depressing. I really hope that things can turn around and people will realise the good distributors like Samurai are doing for our beloved pastime and they in turn support them. I was eager to move the conversation along and talk about something a little less daunting, but before I could Jacopo added this: ‘Like I said before, that’s the difference between being a businessman and skaters that are running a skateboarding business. You know what I mean? There’s a big difference… With all the money that we (Samurai) take in from orders and stuff, we just make Safaris. They are very low on budget, but at the end of the day, none of the guys are rich, none of the guys are actually making real money out of the distribution. It’s very small amounts; it’s just for the love… For the love of skateboarding, not for the money.’
Mattia Turco, frontside ollie to wall bash, ‎Lignano Sabbiadoro
This was a tempting point to wind down the interview, on a positive note, but I’d yet to ask about the pins, you know, all the spot finds on Google Street View Jacopo is known for. Well it turns out that it was actually the Samurai guys that had planned the route for this trip. It was a mix of going to visit skateparks they’d designed and built, doing a couple demos and also hitting up street spots along the way.
Chris Pfanner, kickflip, Senigallia⁩
‘When I first saw the route I was like, are we actually really going to these places? Because like, they don’t really have that many spots, ha ha.’ Jacopo said. ‘So we started in Milan, then went all the way to Lignano (Sabbiadoro), which is close to Venice, and then we pretty much just went down the coast, like on the right side of the country. Oh, actually, before we hit the coast we went to Bologna. So basically, like the first location was Lignano, which is such an OG place for the Italian skate scene. Back in the ‘90s they used to do a contest where all the Italian skaters used to go and even people from Europe and shit. So it’s kind of known as a good place in Italian skateboarding as it has these few really good spots. One is the quarterpipe at the church, then the pyramid got built like a year or two ago, which is a new one, and then there’s also just a bunch of random spots around there.’
Harry Lintell, frontside nosegrind, Bologna
‘I’d actually been to all these cities before, but there was one school in Bologna that I’d never hit, which is where Harry did the front nosegrind down the hubba.’ said Jacopo. ‘That was a pretty good spot the guys found; it had a bunch of shit.’
Looking at the pics from this article you can see the Spitfire crew skated some pretty appealing street architecture; I was eager to know how many of these locations Jacopo had found from his hours of online spot-searching… ‘​​So yeah, I kind of held the pins back to be honest, because the guys knew about all the spots in the locations we visited.’ Jacopo said. I was astonished, all the spots they skated the Samurai guys already knew about. And apart from the natural quarterpipe I’d never seen these spots anywhere before. Italy really does have a lot to offer…
Victor ‘Doobie’ Pellegrin, frontside lipslide, Senigallia⁩
Still kinda shocked that Jacopo didn’t need to use any of his mythical pins, I pleaded for more info… ‘Yeah, this is my thing. I’ll show you…’ Jacopo pulls out his iPad, unlocks it, and a map of Italy comes up with a ridiculous amount of red dots covering the entire country. His face lights up as he says: ‘There’s pins everywhere, even Milan is full. I’m saving them for the next Samurai Safari trip. Every Safari we only skate about one third of the spots in my mind, so there’s a lot more to check out.’
Chris Pfanner, ollie, ‎Pineto
In closing, perhaps the moral of this story is this: support your local skater owned shop. Distributors like Samurai depend on orders from core skate shops (we all know how valuable these places are to our little skate ecosystem) in order to fund these skate trips. Because I’d like to think we all want to see what spots Jacopo’s saved for the next Samurai Safari… I know I sure do.
Click below for more of Sam Ashley’s photos of the trip.
View Gallery | 8 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  November 8, 2019
Keep MACBA skating
Opening photo by Sam Ashley. Words and the rest of the photos by Jon Fletcher.
I was 14 when I booked my first ticket to Barcelona. A week before flying I broke my arm. Rock fakie, and a wrist in a right angle the doctors had to break back into order. With the arm set rigid into a new right angle, I spent that week sat at
MACBA
, watching.
In all that time to sit and feel sorry for myself I noticed two things every skater thinks when they first visit MACBA. The first, that they accidentally built a black marble palace for skating, the second—and even more mind-bending thing— was that they let it happen. This is not some back alley curb, it’s the front of a modern-art museum, with customers, tourists, security guards.
The police would occasionally roll through, halfheartedly, sending skaters scattering into the streets, or the security guard would pull a guard rail across the top block, a reminder of who was boss for a few hours. At about midnight, street cleaners would hose everything down, sluice the beer off the blocks and end the session until tomorrow, but for the most part you could skate in peace.
In the ten years I’ve lived in Barcelona since then, I’ve waited for the day when I go past the square to see the high-vis jackets starting to tear down the blocks. But, this day hasn’t arrived. Even when the builders were there in force one day, prying up marble, they actually made it more of a spot, adding new blocks and a 10-stair at the mouth.
There’s an uneasy peace at MACBA now. The skaters don’t get in the way of the gallery doors and the people passing through get a spectacle to enjoy. But, the barrio that MACBA sits at the heart of,
Raval
, is mounting a campaign to ban skateboarding. They want to flush the skaters out and end the square’s unofficial status as the outdoor bar of the barrio.
If you don’t notice or care that this plaza happened to be an inadvertent gift to European skateboarding, you could be forgiven for seeing why people want it shut down. There’s fights. Drunks and drugs fill the darker hours of the evening when it’s harder to skate. It’s ugly at times. Stand in the wrong corner and foam-headed piss-rivers snake towards you. There’s rubbish, noise. People drip away through the night but cans line the blocks until the the cleaners clatter them away.
The thinking is, ban the skating, and clear the square of the ugly social presence that some Raval residents see MACBA as.
But, it’s the idea that the relaxation of the rules that allows skateboarding is the same licence that give people the idea they can do whatever that is so wrong-minded. It’s the New York broken windows theory put on the shoulders of skateboarding.
But, ending the skating at MACBA is not going to be the end of anti-social behaviour at MACBA.
Skateboarding can have its critics. It’s loud, insular, ostensibly dangerous, and adds no direct commercial value to the square. But skateboarding turned the empty space of the museum front into something. It carved out a space for people that are usually edged out of other public areas. Cities need places for those that make others uncomfortable. For a modern art museum, the odd joy people can draw from their ledges should be a source of pride, a testament to the weird ways humans find to express themselves.
To ban skateboarding at MACBA would be to deal a deep blow to not only Barcelona’s skateboarding community, but the wider community, even those pressing for its closure.
Here’s why.
Firstly, a ‘zero tolerance’ approach would rely upon direct police intervention, and, increasingly, intervention by private police and security guards. In order to kick skating out of MACBA you have to transform a public plaza into a battleground.
This doesn’t just come from the perspective of a skater looking to keep a spot. Research studies from the National Campaign Against Violence and Crime in conjunction with the National Anti-Crime Strategy have shown that this approach does more to damage cities than the problem they are trying to move.
In the American city of Berkeley, California, large numbers of police officers were deployed into the Telegraph Avenue area (Noguera, 1996). Police presence not only cost the city more than it could afford, but it resulted in scaring away of many of the tourists and customers who frequented the restaurants and shops in the area.
Closing down MACBA would undercut the basic principles and practices of ‘community policing’. It’s coercion rather than co-operation, social exclusion rather than participatory inclusion, and street-sweeping rather than problem-solving.
Writing in
Public spaces and community crime prevention
, Rob White explains, ‘In many instances, however, such an approach merely exacerbates bad feeling between the targets of intervention and police,shopkeepers and general consumers’. Antagonism becomes the primary basis of interaction.
‘The intentions behind the public use of space always has unexpected outcomes. There is unpredictability. People rarely seem to do what they are expected to do and it is the unexpected that makes cities so vibrant and worthwhile.’
A community becomes a battleground.
In a response to the objections of the residents of RAVAL founder of
MACBA LIFE
Alex Braza, is working on a solution. “We’re talking to the government and the neighbours, and they see that we’re on their side. The main problem is the noise at night,” Braza says. “We want to find a better solution than to ban skating at MACBA.
The
SAVE MACBA
campaign is working to educate skaters on how they can enjoy the spot and live alongside the non-wheeled community. “If people get more conscientious about it we will keep the spot.”
And it’s worth remembering that this is not a residential square. Skating after 10pm has already been banned. There is an active campaign to educate people not to skate through the side streets, give pedestrians right of way, and not leave their rubbish. Skaters are working to make MACBA better.
Tuli Campus, manager of Rufus Macba created the #savemacba campaign to help spread a code of conduct that will help the skaters at MACBA live alongside the residents of Raval.
“There are a lot of ungrateful souls out there that don’t know what they have until it’s gone.”
Less litter and more polite skates won’t solve the deeper social issues that residents complain about, namely the crime. But destruction of the space won’t solve these issues either. Like the skaters scattering as the police cars roll through, it will just get brushed into darker corners. Pushed back into the barrio.
The decision to police public places with a low-key approach that focuses on major crimes, signals tolerance and inclusion rather than exclusivity. It’s is a decision not to sanitise the space by excluding those whose presence may make some people uncomfortable.
Rather than a zero-tolerance ban at MACBA, using a knowledge of the local area, and local community needs, issues, skating can remain part of the culture of the area. It’s an approach that encourages variance in age, race, and income within the community.
This needs co-ordination of various groups, such as SaveMACBA and individuals from the local community with ongoing forums for discussion and assessment of the issues surrounding crime and anti-social behaviour.
MACBA is an odd corner of Barcelona. Not without its problems, but not without its own community and uniqueness. To end skateboarding at MACBA will only serve to disperse this community but sanitise another city space without addressing the underlying issues.
Keep MACBA skating.
– Jon Fletcher

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  May 30, 2018
Fred Plocque-Santos
Frontside boardslide
All photos in Barcelona by Roger Ferrero
Words by Arthur Derrien
Fred had always been a bit of an enigma.
On the one hand he’s as loose as they get and you regularly hear stories of him doing all sorts of sketchy shit. Like showing up in Copenhagen without a plan and ending up sleeping under the bowl in Christiania. Or going all the way to Portugal to buy a van for 80 Euros in hope of driving it back to Barcelona to live in it, which to his defence, he probably could have pulled off if he’d taken into account how much the MOT was going to cost. And maybe that it would mean boying off showers and having to go back to a tiny van after sweating his arse off at MACBA in the middle of summer… The one where he pulled what he thought was a kebab out from a bin (thinking he’d come up on some free dinner), only to realise he was actually holding a freshly used nappy is also a personal favourite.
On the other hand, about three minutes into your first conversation with the guy you realise you’d have a hard time calling him a wasteman by any stretch of the word.
For starters, he speaks three languages. French: he’s originally from Pompignac, a tiny vineyard town just outside of Bordeaux. Spanish: his mum’s Spanish and he currently lives in Barcelona (he’s got the dual nationality). English: I guess he just put the time in. And when I say ‘speaks’, I mean fluently enough to score roles in all three languages. Because yeah that’s another thing we recently discovered about Fred: his acting. He’s been regularly attending French and Spanish theatre schools and he speaks about it with as much passion as when he comes across a new species of handrail (but we’ll get to that later). ‘I’ve been going almost every day for a good few hours after skating, it’s been really good for me, it’s very therapeutic. And weirdly I’ve been finding similarities between the stuff I work on in those classes and skating. A lot of it has it has to do with rhythm and having a good sense of direction. Or even the way you understand your surroundings… Like feeling the intensity of a scene and being able to pick the perfect moment to step in with your line. That moment somehow sort of feels like figuring out where/when to pop at a tricky spot. The fact that you can practise it freely and that creativity is encouraged… That it’s one of those things that the more you do, the more you enjoy as it’s all about confidence…’ So if you ever wondered how he gets by whilst seemingly being out skating everyday, there’s your answer. He’s killing it with the acting and there’s an agency that’s been hooking him up with small roles in films and bits for various adverts. So it’s good money (that he excels at making last) and not something that he has to do everyday: the ideal setup for someone trying to skate as much as possible.
Wallie no-comply
Another thing I just discovered is that he also secretly has a degree in Economics as well as a diploma in Physics/Chemistry. So if he’s living this Catalan bohemian dream, it’s fully out of choice. He studied hard then decided he wanted to give skating a proper shot and live slightly differently, which isn’t quite the same as washing up in Barci after too many Plaça Reial benders.
The other obvious danger with the Spanish skate Mecca is of course becoming complacent. Endless smooth granite and ‘perfect blues’ has a funny way of doing that to people… Fred not only resisted that trap, but also reinvigorated the ever-expanding FTC/Free Wifi/Gronze crew. With Max Géronzi on Google Maps duty and himself on foot patrol, they’ve imposed a new spot-hunting regime. No more melting at plazas, pins are militantly dropped in every corner of the city and its neighbouring towns, and everyone that jumps in the car for the weekend missions stays on the lookout at all times. And although everyone’s in it together, Fred’s unquenchable thirst for bizarre handrails is obviously one of the things fuelling the operation. ‘Rails? Yeah they’re a bit of an obsession, ha ha. I really want to find twisted ones, like proper spiral ones… I love spiky ones too. Even super short ones can be fun! I also love skating ones in places you wouldn’t expect, like shopping malls for instance – and if there’s a random person standing there confused, even better. It’s harmless and there’s something quite enjoyable about shocking them in their routine.’ According to his calculations he would have approximately hit 200 this year. A figure, which after close inspection of his Instagram (which by the way is INCREDIBLE), seems like it could actually be quite accurate.
Boardslide
I also wouldn’t be doing Fred justice if I didn’t mention his appetite for travelling. Obviously everyone likes to go on trips, especially skaters, but his approach is rather unconventionally ‘brave’. He’s literally up for anything. I’m talking ten days in Siberia following a random skate camp around with 300 Russian skaters he’s never met kind of ‘brave’. Or solo exploring sketchy parts of Tijuana (after having been instructed not to go alone), that sort of thing. Which in that particular case didn’t really work out so well for him: ‘Yeah I got fucked over pretty good out there. To be honest I wasn’t really as careful as I’d been told to be though. I guess I just really wanted to get a good feel for the place… Anyway so basically I met a girl who I ended up chatting to and getting along with really well. After half an hour or something, she invited me to her mum’s to play video games. Pretty random but I thought why not? It felt genuine and we’d been chatting for long enough to be past the point of thinking she might rob me or something. Obviously I was completely wrong, and the second we met her mum two dudes jumped out of nowhere, one went for my neck while the other kick-boxed the shit out of me. It was pretty brutal. What shocked me the most was that the woman really looked like she was her mum… Like I’m convinced the mum was just in on the scam. Which is kind of gnarly… Anyway then I managed to get a taxi back to the border but since they’d basically taken everything I had on me (which wasn’t much) I ended up being held there for ages. It wasn’t great.’
Frontside boardslide to hurricane
Finally after Fred the artist, Fred the scholar, Fred the handrail worshipper and Fred the traveller, I’d like to introduce you to the most unexpected of all: Fred the entrepreneur. From speaking to him about his passion for orange I sort of figured he had a heightened sensitivity when it came to colours: ‘Orange? I love the way it works with black… That it symbolises sunrise and sunset… And how their light makes everything look.’ And I guess he’s never been one to shy away from wild items of clothing, but him getting into the ‘trouser business’ is certainly not something we saw coming. The basic idea behind his venture (Yé) is to source elasticated work-wear bottoms and slightly alter them. ‘If you’re a cook or a plumber you need quality clothing. You need what you wear to be super-resistant but also loose and light enough to move around as freely as possible. Just like in skating, you don’t want to feel constrained. I go to markets and factories to bulk buy the best possible work trousers and personalise them. Like I slightly adjust the fit or add a stripe or a lace at the bottom to tighten them, that sort of thing. It’s still early days but I’m hoping to get them into shops and stuff…’
The boy’s as versatile as he is unpredictable (both on and off his board) so rather than go on forever we’ll say this: if you come across a guy in flashy trou front boarding a weird shaped handrail somewhere unexpected – and you probably will at some point because he seems to be everywhere – wait ‘til he’s done then buy him a pint. I guarantee the chat that’ll ensue will be even more entertaining than what you’ll have just witnessed.
Click through the gallery for more Fred photos from the mag:
View Gallery | 7 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  October 26, 2016
Farid Ulrich interview from issue 7
Photography by Florian ‘Burny’ Hopfensperger. Interview by Julian Dykmans.
So in skating, when you’ve been around for decades, you could say you pretty much think you know it all. And so like most, you judge people and sometimes you keep that judgment, that feeling, for a long time although the truth is that you don’t know that person and that perhaps your judgment is just plain wrong. I am not sure why my instinct was wrong back then when I bumped into Farid who was perhaps a typical cocky 16-year-old skateboarder who ripped, but I am super happy to meet him again now, seven years later. I can see that Farid has various interests in life, the sparkle in his eyes and yes admittedly the same annoying ease on a skateboard. Do yourself a favour and take some time to re-
question yourself. I did, and accepted an invitation to interview someone I barely knew, not to mention I have little experience in interviewing people and last but not least I am typically too busy. But I was down for the adventure and Farid did not disappoint. Let’s go skate that mini Farid!
Hi Farid can you introduce yourself?
Farid Ulrich: Hi, my name is Farid and I am 23-years-old. I’ve skated for 12 years now so it’s more than half of my life. I can remember more of my life being a skateboarder than not. I like to keep that in mind, it’s a nice point of view. I am from Berlin, born and raised. I think the rest we are going to figure out….
Yes we will. Are you related to Lars Ulrich?
Lars Ulrich?
The drummer of Metallica.
Haha, no I’m not related.
You should check it out. Maybe he is close family.
Is it the same spelling?
Yes it is. Go find out about your roots Mr. Ulrich! Tell me more about being born and raised in Berlin…
My father was born in Lebanon; he was a refugee from Palestine. He came to Berlin to the western part when he was six-years-old. My mother is from the eastern part of Berlin. She fled East Berlin six months before the wall came down when she was going on a family vacation to Hungary.
So it was a planned family vacation escape?
Yes, except that once the wall came down, my mom went back to Berlin since her mom was there and she could be in the West and the East. She came to this house where we are now (in Mitte, which is central East Berlin) and squatted here. This whole area was completely empty, almost no people. With some others they moved in to this house and had to fight eviction from the police numerous times – there are crazy stories. For instance, there were a lot of Nazis back then in the area so my parents had to group up with the neighbours to be safe. That was the vibe.
So do you own the house?
No, but for a long time the owners let us have a low rent because they are down for us, we bring culture to the neighbourhood. Right now they are selling our house and a big movie company is going to buy it. What will happen is these new people will raise our rent and that means we won’t be able to afford our place anymore.
I suppose it’s deadline time to get your own place.
For me it’s okay as I am young and when I get kicked out, I’ll start something else. But for the people who have lived here for 25 years and all our friends, it’s tough. It’s a real community here; everyone knows each other and hangs together. Now they will have to find a new place and probably it’ll be outside of Berlin as they won’t be able to afford to live around here.
How did you learn your English? Yours is pretty good…
My first language in school was Latin. And of course I cannot speak it, but I suppose I got the grammar right early on.
Frontside no comply.
So you watch your movies in the original version then?
No, not really but I had this Biggie movie for two months when I was in Thailand without WIFI so I watched that over and over again. I adapted the vocabulary of this film to my own.
Haha, so you got the slang, huh? So for instance, if you are going to watch a movie, let’s say the new Star Wars, you are going to watch it dubbed in German?
Yeah. I think if you watch the movies dubbed in German, they are really well done.
But don’t you think if you have an Oscar performance actor in English it kinda sucks for him to be dubbed into another language? Don’t you think his performance will be different since it’s a guy in studio pretending to speak the same?
Yeah I see what you mean, it’s not the real acting anymore. It’s more like acting for the Germans then. Interesting point.
If it were up to me I would force all TVs and cinemas to have everything in their original version. It would just help the world communicate better.
That’s the difference, like Scandinavia, they speak so good English.
Small countries don’t have the budgets to dub; it’s too expensive. What a blessing it is for them, they learn English instead. I always tell kids to watch movies in their original version, also to read Thrasher and TWS. Did you read those mags?
Not too much, when I was young we did not have much money. I had different plans; I wanted to buy a board, no money for a Thrasher subscription really. If I had the chance to get my hands on a Place mag, I would read that.
Who are your sponsors?
Nike SB, team Titus and Lousy Livin’.
Switch flip
Can we talk about your Dad? For instance I heard he is the owner of Chalet (famous club in Berlin)?
You would think that because he has the key and he’s the guy to talk to if you have an idea to do something there but he is not the owner. He takes care of everything there. When there is a fight, etc.… He just takes care of the situations.
So he is a gangster right?
No not really… haha. He just handles everything. But he’ll bring the humour: he’ll bring the hose and water down the troublemakers in the garden – things like that.
Skaters are always gossiping… What’s your opinion about that? For instance skaters saying your dad owns the club.
I just keep out of it; I don’t really care. I don’t follow all that stuff. Also I have my friends that don’t skate. I am just not into it. I am more interested in my own project, for instance Wolfstone.
What is Wolfstone?
I skate now and maybe I got three more years, maybe six; who knows. Wolfstone is a family house that we’ve owned for the past 20 years. It’s south of Berlin, an hour away and it’s where I want to put some of my energy – it’s a process that never ends. I kind of realised that it’s the place where I want to be. It’s in the middle of the forest and the next house is like 2 km away. There is no water so we built a pond. So in the morning, you can grab your bucket and wash up, etc…
Ollie
What’s your idea there? Do a hostel?
Not really, I think since we are going to move, this is going to be my next house. It’s a perfect home base plus I’m always on trips so I would be really keen to keep living with my mom, as I am so down with her. Basically we’d live in a communal house. I have a friend with his camper there already. The idea would be to have more people there. There is a skatepark there too.
That sounds pretty amazing. What will you do if you fall in love and want to move in with your girl?
Wolfstone is not going anywhere; it’s there to stay. So I can move in, move out, it will always be there. It’s called Wolfstein actually because there is a stone stating 781, the last time a Wolf was shot there. The coolest thing is that now the wolves are back.
Really? That’s great! So on to a different subject: What’s up with German skateboarders? Why are there not many on European and Global teams? What’s your opinion?
The first thing is, people in Germany skate a little too strict, copying who they like and maybe not finding their own self. I don’t know though…
Do you think it could be a language barrier as well? Not enough movies in their original version! For instance, crews of Germans go to Barcelona all together and stay in groups, which makes it tough to integrate with locals or new groups of people.
Maybe the German skater gets too cosy too quick. Thing is you can have a German career here and pretty much never leave, guys can get content easily. I don’t know, some want sponsors so much that it ruins it for them. All my friends wanted and got sponsored before me and I just skated and never asked. In the end they all quit and I am here still skating. I was just having fun, spending time on transition, etc.… And that’s what helped me. Transition even helped me for rail skating!
Really?
Yes, you know how you do 50-50s on the coping on a ramp? Well on a rail it’s the same thing; it’s the same position!
Except there ain’t as much commitment but hey… Back to that topic, why aren’t some Germans on the ‘cool’ brands?
Most are happy where they are; I guess we have everything we need.
If they’d get on better teams (Europe or Global) they would learn better English. I noticed some skaters barely speak English and after a year or two, it’s on.
Yeah, look at Willow! At the beginning his English was all funny and now he’s really good at it.
But do you think it’s kind of uncool to be a skater from Germany?
Maybe a bit, it’s not my favourite either. Somehow there is too much copying. There are so many skaters in Germany, but not so many are coming out. Maybe it’s the bad skateparks that we have…
Frontside bluntslide pop-out.
That’s just excuses. Everyone has some…
Maybe people are too safe here. You do your studies, you start working, you have your habits and you don’t want to change your nice little routine. I hear from my friends it’s hard to be a skater, it’s hard to make it. They don’t want to take the risk.
I think it’s not for everyone. If you want to skate, you will. If you want to travel, you will by all means whatever the cost. There is just a huge difference of motivation in different people. It’s really up to you I think; anything’s possible.
My parents forced me to do my studies, to finish school. But at the same time I skated. It was cool they pushed me like this.
What about the codes of skateboarding? What’s your take? For instance the 360 flip with the yo flip? Or the 360 shove with the yo…
When I was young I could not do a 360 flip without the yo.
OK I am just going to lay it on you… Yes that’s the German 360 flip! So did you try to change it?
No, it kinda changed naturally last year. It just started coming together with a catch with both feet.
And now a Vince question: What do you think of the no-comply trend?
I don’t mind as long as the skater does not become lazy. It must look good. I am down with them – been doing them forever.
Yeah you can even do them down big double sets. How far do you want to go in skating? Head to the US, get big, etc.?
Pro in the US means pretty much skating eight hours a day. I mean it’s pretty much like this no?
No. You could film a trick a week and if it was good you’d be fine. But it’s more about if you like it there. Maybe you’re like some of the Germans you mentioned and you like it in Germany.
I am open for everything. I would not move to the US and force myself in. If I got a good offer I’d consider moving there.
Brands won’t offer you if you are not going there or doing something about it. Are you happy like this?
That’s a hard question, especially for an interview. But yes I would like to go for it all the way.
But how are you going to make this happen? For instance, I don’t see many German skaters moving to let’s say Barcelona and skate there for six months. Within that time, you don’t know whom you are going to become friends with but it might be that you become friends with this team that is visiting for a month, etc… And this might change your life! You can do that with any city: Paris, London…
That’s what I tell my friends: Stop complaining and living at your parents’! Go to a main city and skate. I went for two months to Thailand last year and one month and half in Barcelona. It was a great time; some of my footage comes from those trips. In Barca, we were ten skaters in a small house with all types of nationalities; it was super fun!
Sounds like you got the right idea. I think that about does it. Thanks Farid.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 25, 2024
Nozbone’s ‘Terrain Vague’ video
Parisian skate shops, videos and egocentric monologues – Nozbone’s new video and 20th anniversary
Photography by Thibault Le Nours
Words by David Turakiewicz
When Nozbone opened in 2003 I was working for Sugar with two ex-Street Machine employees. Needless to say, they did not think very highly of any of the other Parisian skate shops, but I was somehow even more narrow-minded and it took me at least three years to set foot in the place, just because I thought ‘Nozbone’ was a terrible name. It being spelt with a ‘z’ instead of the ‘se’ would even come to confirm this infallible line of reasoning: with a name like that, it couldn’t possibly be any good.
Victim of its own pride ‘La Machine’ (now there’s a legendary skate shop article that’s waiting to be written!) finally ended up closing its doors, forcing us to face the facts. On top of sponsoring a whole bunch of kids (many of whom are today pro) and dreaming up their famous Benchmark Contest (alongside countless other skateboarding get-togethers), in 2009 Nozbone managed to do what no other Parisian skate shop had succeeded in until then: release a video. Beyond the fact that I had a trick in there – which obviously began changing my mind about what some had already nicknamed ‘La Noz’– their audio-visual achievement made everyone see eye to eye at a time when DVDs still somewhat mattered and Parisian skateboarding was well and truly popping off. On top of that, the title
Rendez-Vous
this time was music to my ears, five years after
Bon Appétit
(which I’d like to add undeniably remains one of the top five videos of all time).
Since then Nozbone has endured the arrival of new skate shops of varying degrees of legitimacy, a terror attack just a few hundred feet away in 2015 and a bankruptcy (amongst other ‘inconveniences’), before finally rising from its ashes a stone’s throw away from République. All this without ever stopping giving boards out to the team, producing the Benchmark comp and releasing videos directed by their trusty Ludo Azemar, the latest of which carries on the good old tradition of French titles: ‘
Terrain Vague
’ (which comes after
Café Clope
in 2013 and I
ntra-muros
in 2017, although granted, that last one’s actually Latin).
Now although I spent countless hours of my childhood confusing my skate shop with a community centre, the longest I’ve actually ever spent on the other side of the counter was the summer I did at ‘La Noz‘ in 2019*, which probably justifies the fact that I was chosen to write this text.
Amélien Foures, ollie, Paris
Pit stops
One day over that summer, a sweaty, stressed-out young man showed up at the shop after having popped a bearing halfway through filming a line. The deep distress and rushing adrenaline were written all over his face. Naturally, he didn’t have anything on him and the filmer was waiting for him back at the spot. So I took a bearing and a tool out of a drawer full of scrap metal and two minutes later I was watching him frantically push away into the distance from the doorway, chuffed about having been able to sort him out, wishing eternal gratitude to those who like me, have behind the scenes saved so many sessions without expecting anything in return. In short, even if constantly spotting people bearings, nuts and bolts may not necessarily be the best way to run your business, it remains the role of a skate shop, in my opinion.
César Dubroca, kickflip, Athens
Sponsorship is not a crime
In the ‘90s, in France, being sponsored by a skate shop often just meant having discounts on boards (and occasionally getting a free one to go to a contest). It didn’t cost the skate shop anything and everyone was happy, because even if the riders were still paying for their boards, they were also in a way buying themselves the legendary, coveted status of ‘sponsored skater‘. And while I’m sure there are probably still skate shops out there that shamelessly practise this kind of scam, it is inconceivable for a real skate shop to exist without a team. In the same way, a skate shop must support contests and other small events in its vicinity, and beyond. But while all this sounds charitable, in reality it’s simply just marketing.
Jérôme Sossou, wallie, Athens
Skate your local
skate shop If in the suburbs in which I grew up spots were few and far between; it was a downright desert in terms of undercover options. Apart from an Ikea parking lot 20 kilometres away in the middle of nowhere, it was pretty damn depressing on rainy days… Up until the guys from the local (Starcow, which back then was still called Just Cow) moved into a long and narrow shop, with just enough space to fit a flat bar and to roll away from a few grinds between the shoe boxes and Broke t-shirts on a Sunday. Just what was needed to clear our heads back then and for me to have an example of multiple uses of a skate shop for a magazine article 25 years later. By the way, while we’re on the topic, it’s also worth noting that Nozbone has had a small concrete mini hidden in its cellar for several years now…
Amélien Foures, crooked grind transfer, Athens
Support your local social club
Even if they have a team, release videos, sponsor contests, place ads in magazines and do everything to make people believe otherwise, online platforms that sell boards are not skate shops. It’s a fact, not an opinion, and it’s always good to remind people of that. And I doubt that those who boycott their local* by purchasing online have the slightest idea of who these purchases are benefitting or of the harm they are doing to all actual physical skate shops (which you can – as we’ve just reminded – even sometimes skate in on rainy Sundays).
Jérôme Sossou, frontside bluntslide pop out to fakie, Athens
Reel-o-days
Videos are today also one of the many essential marketing tools used by skate shops, but not everyone can afford that kind of investment (in terms of money, time or energy), especially in the Instagram-era, where it’s so much easier to just instantly drop anything you film without thinking. Except it would be naive to oppose ‘full-lengths’ and social media when they’re actually complementary: you need Instagram for short-term visibility, and then the ‘real’ videos for the long term. Because let’s face it, 10 or 20 years from now no one will be watching the reel you posted yesterday, but skate shop videos will always be more easily accessible, and therefore will forever remain markers of an era, of a scene, of a trip.
César Dubroca, backside tailslide, Berlin
Drink water
One detail that should be a red flag when entering a skate shop is the sight
of a small energy drink fridge perched in a corner. I won’t dwell on it too much though because they’re so common that I wouldn’t be surprised if even Nozbone had one at one point*, which could ruin this whole article and damage the reputation of the shop, of this magazine and worse still: mine. So let’s not take any chances and swiftly move on to the next paragraph.
Recycle or die
For years there’s been a persistent rumour floating around about a Parisian skate shop that would ask its riders to return their boards once skated so that they could supposedly resell them afterwards (unofficially to ensure that they were not resold by the team behind their backs). What is certain is that in the same way as you return your bottles to the supermarket in exchange for a voucher in Germany, we should introduce a deposit scheme for skate equipment. It would help bring people back into the skate shops and would avoid so many damaged boards being left lying around at spots. They could thus be recycled into chipboard panels after a trip to the recycling centre (in the best case, and after removing the grip), or resold at a high price to wack artists convinced that painting on old skateboards is the idea of the century. We could even melt down the old trucks to make new ones and put together beautiful bead necklaces with the old wheels, which would be resold to crusties.
Hugo Corbin, backside 50-50, Lisbon
Print’s not dead
Free or paid, magazines have always had their place on skate shop counters as excellent sources for gossip and trend broadcasting. And even if social media platforms probably have overtaken them on those two fronts, they can still be found in SOSs, from the most underground (like Versus or FTBX in France) to the most renowned (although admittedly it’s a lot easier to find a
Thrasher
t-shirt than a magazine of that title). And despite (still in France)
Sugar
still being available on newsstands, it can be easier to find in a good number of skate shops alongside
Free
and
Solo
. So get yourself down there and use it as an excuse to support your local, it’ll always be healthier than spending that money at the bar, and you’ll probably get as much for your buck in terms of rumours and shit talking.
Big business
Since Decathlon has decided to come and mess up the market at a time when shops really didn’t need that extra little kick in the teeth, the best thing would perhaps be for skate shops to make the opposite journey and start selling sporting goods. Granted, there is little chance that this would have the slightest effect on French Sports Supermarket sales (especially since they specialise in selling products at low prices, which they can afford to do because of their size), but given that skateboarding is now a sport in the eyes of the general public, wouldn’t it be in the skate shops’ best interests to also sell real sporting goods? Given so many skateboarders’ newfound passions for climbing or cycling, and given the prices we’ve now grown accustomed to for hardware or shoes, if skate shops started stocking cycling shorts and climbing shoes, it’s possible that they would sell. Or not, who knows? Our best bet might just be to wait until skate brands decide to produce these types of items themselves. Since mad collabs seem to be all the rage these days, we’re probably not safe from Emerica x La Sportiva or Hélas x Trek releases. At the risk of Palace hitting us with a collaboration with Quechua…
Jérôme Sossou, gap to 50-50, Athens
I was asked to write a list of ‘Do’s and Don’ts of running a skate shop’ based around Nozbone’s 20th anniversary and the video they produced to mark the occasion, and here’s where it took me. I’ve got a feeling I might not get the call for the ‘DOs and DON’Ts of running a skate mag’… Which is a shame, because I reckon I would have a few things to say on that one…

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  February 18, 2020
Neuroscience, skateboarding and child trauma
Just over a year ago I heard about someone named Joel Pippus who was using skateboarding in his work with high needs kids in Alberta, Canada. Now obviously this isn’t something completely new ­— we’ve all seen the incredible work skate aid organisations have been doing all over the world ­— but the difference here is that the benefits of skateboarding were looked at through the lens of neuroscience. Using the Neurosequential Model of Therapeutics as a starting point, he studied how certain aspects of skateboarding could have a positive effect on specific parts of these traumatised children’s brains. Below is a chat with Joel about his work, the type of kids he helps, how skateboarding entered the picture and if his findings could be applied elsewhere.
– Arthur Derrien
Can you start off by giving us a little bit of background information about yourself? For how long have you been skateboarding? How did you get into this line of work?
I am 33 years old and have been skateboarding for about 20 years. I have always been passionate about working with youth and have done so off and on since I graduated high school. In 2010, my (now) wife was doing a nursing practicum and had the opportunity to speak with a man who worked with very high needs kids. She thought it sounded like something I would be interested in, and as a result I applied at
Hull Services
. That was eight and a half years ago and I am still going strong! For my first seven years at Hull, I worked in a therapeutic campus-based care programme for kids who are 12-17 years old, have cognitive delays, trauma and abuse histories, histories of aggression, and minimally two (but usually more like four or five) mental health diagnoses. Once my wife and I began having kids (we have two little boys) I had difficulty managing my life at home while doing shift work, so I moved over to William Roper Hull School. At the school I currently work as a School Transition Counsellor, which means I provide crisis support, family work, transition planning and training for my classrooms. I also do a lot of crisis support and training for classroom teams around the school, crisis intervention training for the agency and have taken the lead on the rollout of our skatepark and skateboarding programme.
Before we get into
the skateboarding program
, can you tell us a little bit about the kids you work with at Hull Services?
Hull Services is a non-profit organisation that works to support the unique needs of children and families impacted by emotional and behavioural problems, learning disabilities, mental illness, developmental delay, neglect, abuse, poverty and family violence. We have 27 programs including therapeutic campus-based care, school based programs, early intervention and prevention and secured programs for kids who are at risk of harm to themselves or others. Hull offers services that include things like individual, group and family therapy, remedial education, academic and vocational development, life skills training, parenting support and family counselling.
Hull Services is also the only Canadian Flagship Site for the Neurosequential Model of Therapeutics, which is a developmentally sensitive, neurobiologically informed care model that was developed by Dr Bruce Perry and the Neurosequential Model Network. Perry is a psychiatrist and neuroscientist who focused on how the mental health field and the field of neuroscience could support children and families who have experienced significant trauma. The model has changed the way we understand and work with the kids we serve.
How did skateboarding enter the picture?
In the spring of 2015, the Matt Banister Memorial Skatepark was built by Newline Skateparks on our main campus. Matt tragically passed away from an overdose seven years earlier. Both of Matt’s parents have been involved with Hull Services as members of our Board of Governors for years, and a friend of theirs suggested that a memorial skatepark be built in Matt’s memory (because they felt skateboarding had been a healthy activity in Matt’s life) at Hull because of their connection to Hull. That friend had a family connection to Newline. Some incredible fundraising happened, Newline pitched in, and Hull was the recipient of a beautiful new skatepark.
Once we settled into using the park, we immediately began to notice that time spent in the skatepark seemed to be having a positive impact on the overall treatment kids were receiving. Kids that were ‘mortal enemies’ in the program were able to connect over time spent at the skatepark. It is often difficult for kids to transition out of an activity that they really enjoy (especially the kids served at Hull). It was more common for kids to go into crisis over the transition to the skatepark than the transition back from the skatepark, which pointed to something about skateboarding and time at the park being emotionally regulating so they were better able to handle that transition. When processing difficult emotions with staff, kids began referring to time at the skatepark as being helpful in that process. All of this led us to the connection between skateboarding and how this was impacting the kids’ brain through the Neurosequential Model.
How was the idea received by your colleagues?
There was some initial caution within Hull about skateboarding. That being said, the response quickly became overwhelmingly positive once we started to explain the connection between skateboarding and the NM, and especially once other staff were able to observe how perfectly skateboarding fits as an activity for the population we serve at Hull.
Why, in your opinion, is the skatepark such an effective therapeutic milieu?
My experience has been that a skatepark is absolutely a therapeutic milieu. I think this is true for a number of reasons including the fact that skateparks are designed to allow creative and unique thinking (something that is praised in skateboard culture), they provide an opportunity for patterned and repetitive skill development and are a meeting place for anyone interested in being a part of the skateboarding subculture. Maybe most importantly, skatepark etiquette is based around social skills so just by following skatepark etiquette socials skills are being learned and practiced.
How did skateboarding apply to the Neurosequential Model and what you guys were trying to achieve?
The unfortunate reality is that the vast majority of kids that receive treatment at Hull experienced serious and often pervasive trauma during their childhood, which can have a massive effect on brain development. The NM is powerful because it highlights the possibility of (through various types of activities) healing those traumatised brains.
The
skateboarding fits perfectly
with all four of the areas of the brain highlighted in the NM. The first domain of the brain highlighted in the NM is the brainstem, which is responsible for sensory integration (skateboarding is full of healthy sensory stimuli – everything from vibrations through your feet to the specific sound the pop of the tail or each grind and slide makes). The second area of the brain in the NM is the diencephalon, which is responsible for self-regulation (the patterned and repetitive nature of skateboarding – from pushing down the sidewalk to pumping around a park – is organically regulating). The third area is the limbic system, which is associated with relational attachment (skateboarding provides an opportunity for our kids to become a part of a pro-social activity and inclusive community). The fourth and final NM area is the neocortex, which is the smart part of the brain, the part that is responsible for executive functioning and skill development (skateboarding is entirely based on the patterned and repetitive process of skill development, and is unique in the way those skills can be combined to link different tricks). What all of this means is that skateboarding has the ability to heal brains from past trauma and as a result literally change lives.
Illustrations by James Jarvis
Can you give us some examples of cases where skateboarding has played a key role in helping these children?
One student joined skate class and had never skateboarded before. After the first day he was hooked. He started asking every class for things he could work on at home (our students rarely if ever do homework in other classes, and they definitely don’t ask for homework) and would check in with me throughout the week with his progress. He progressed rapidly, had the opportunity to participate in a skate camp over the summer and regularly messages me with updates. He sent me a video of his first kickflip, his first 3-set and he comes back to skate with me and try to film tricks. Most importantly, he is a young person who struggled at times to manage emotions and was socially isolated. His ability to manage his emotions has improved significantly and he is spending hours each evening in the community making and developing friendships through skateboarding.
Another student has a horrendous trauma and abuse history. This student advocated to be a part of the skateboarding option at our school and has articulated that skateboarding helps her to feel calm and regulated.  She has been regularly requesting to spend more and more time in the skatepark.
I work in a school that serves students from grades 1-12 and that have severe behavioural and mental health challenges that are often related to trauma, abuse, and/or addiction. In the first two months of this school year, roughly 85% of those students have already been on a skateboard and most want to go out to the park as often as possible. Because skateboarding is organically regulating (and despite this severity of behaviours that our students regularly present with), we have not had a single severe behavioural incident at the skatepark.
How can your findings be applied outside of the work you do at Hull Services? I know you reached out to Skateistan…
These findings can be applied in numerous ways outside of Hull Services. My hope is that organisations like Skateistan or Academy Skateboard Collective (organisations that among other things use skateboarding as a bridge to education for marginalised populations) can capitalise on the connection between skateboarding and neuroscience and become even more effective in the incredible work that they are already doing. I hope that this information can be a tool for advocacy so communities will prioritise providing space for skateboarders, so schools will have skateboarding classes (which provide incredible cross-curricular opportunities) and so that in general skateboarding can be seen in a more positive light. In general, my dream is that this information will enrich the work of anyone anywhere that is skateboarding with kids. Let kids skateboard: it can change their lives.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  March 6, 2023
Ryuhei Kitazume – Meet You There
The Shonan area, a string of beachfront towns an hour away from central Tokyo, is known as ‘Surfer’s Paradise’ in Japan, but it’s also home to one of the strongest skate scenes, producing some of the best skaters to ever come out the country. ‘Sega Mae’ was the EMB of Shonan, a marble plaza with perfect ledges right in front of the beach. The ‘Chatty Chatty’ crew: Koichi ‘Zizow’ Kitamura, Soichiro Nakajima, Yoshiaki Toeda, Junya Fire and many more, have been making videos around Sega Mae for 20 years, filmed by videographer Chatty Pong. Ryuhei Kitazume literally grew up at Sega Mae, witnessing the OG’s and blending that signature Chatty Chatty tech style with plenty of added power.
Unfortunately, street skating in Japan is public enemy number one, and while it’s always been difficult it’s recently become almost impossible. In the last few years Sega Mae has been knobbed, then liberated, then reknobbed and the ledges chunked, then liberated, then reknobbed and sand dumped in front of the ledges. What was once one of Japan’s best spots is now an unskateable eyesore. Ryuhei spent the pandemic in Shonan waiting for the world to reopen so he could travel again and skate some ledges.
In November 2021 we were finally able to link in Barcelona and Ryuhei filmed a full part while he shot this interview for Free. Ryuhei is one of my favourite skaters but I know this part is just the start of a new chapter for him; he’s headed back to Europe, this time to stay a while.
– Anthony Claravall
Frontside bluntslide, Cornellà. Photo: Gerard Riera.
Interview (from 🔴 46) by Laurence Keefe.
Are you still living in Shonan?
Yeah, it’s away from the city and a quiet town. Because there are a lot of surfers in the area it’s a bit more lenient towards skating than Tokyo.
Most skaters there seem to follow a certain style: baggy pants and knee-high ledge tricks. How did that happen?
Yeah that’s because of Sega Mae. The ledges there are high so you need to have a big ollie to get up onto them. Yoshiaki Toeda and Zizow were big influences for me.
I was told you lived in Kentucky a bit when you were younger. How come? How long? And what was it like?
How did you hear that? I can’t really remember Kentucky but I lived in the US from the age of one to eight. The first year in Kentucky and after that in Indiana. My father was working for Toyota and there was a factory out there. I was speaking English when I was there, but I went to a Japanese school on Saturdays so I could practise Japanese as well.
It was really in the countryside out there, nothing like New York or California. I’d wake up in the morning and see a deer in the garden, or skunks and snakes. It was that rural. I remember Nickelodeon though, I always watched that and SpongeBob…
Did you skate when you were there?
Do you know
Rocket Power
? It was a cartoon with surfing, snowboarding and skating for kids. I watched that but at the time I was only really going down slopes on a Toys ’R’ Us board kind of level.
Same as me at that age then. Tell us about some of the different jobs you’ve had. You worked at a Pachinko parlour, but also at a port right?
Pachinko was just a part-time job when I was a student. I just did that because the money was good at the time. More recently was the port work. It was hard. I would be doing things like moving 700 packets of 25kg flour onto a container, then repeating to fill around five containers in a day with one other guy.
Crooked grind Chiba, Japan. Photo: Nobuo Iseki.
And you were active as a pro skater at that time? Was that tough?
Yes, I was. It was so hard. The good thing was that it was an early start in the morning but I would finish around three or 4pm so I would be able to skate after until it got dark. I did that for around three years. I would be so tired, but would go skating anyway, starting from total exhaustion. (Laughs)
Was that like training for you though? Like Brazilians that play football on the beach with no shoes play way easier on the pitch afterwards…
Ahhhh nah not really ha ha. But the money was good and it was like a free gym to me. At the time I always thought paying to go to a gym was dumb when you could get paid to work out at the port. Losing weight and getting paid for it.
And are you still working now? Or just skating?
Just skating. Thanks to Tightbooth and Nike.
What did you study at university?
International studies. It was a course about cultural differences. I guess because I lived in the States at a young age and was interested in pursuing a career in something where I could use the English language. I haven’t really used what I studied yet in my career so I can’t really judge if it was worth it or not, but it’s up to me what I do from now on. I never thought I would be able to be a pro skater forever, so I thought it would be good to have a plan B and plan C as well.
Backside Smith grind, Viladecans. Gerard Riera.
I know you rode for Western Edition a long time, and even went
pro for them
. And now you’ve made the switch to Tightbooth, which are now making boards. When did this happen and why the switch?
I was pro for Western Edition, but at some point, they weren’t really putting out any new boards. I was skating but WE didn’t really have any projects going on. More than just being a pro, I wanted to be out filming. So, I quit for the time being and thought about riding something else, and Shinpei (Ueno) asked me if I wanted to ride for Tightbooth. We were filming for Lenz III already so I started with the clothing, and as I didn’t have a board sponsor, he told me they would start making boards as well. I was contemplating it for a while but ended up getting on.
Did you have any offers from other board brands over the years?
Yes. Should I say?? Aaaaaaaah…
Why did you turn them down?
There were a few that I got offers that I didn’t really know the brand, or I just thought that my circumstances wouldn’t change even if I changed sponsors. When I was on WE I wanted to skate more, film more, travel to more places so I quit, but if I ended up getting on another company of a similar size it probably wouldn’t change for me. I’d just get boards for free but wouldn’t be able to do what I’m trying to do.
Anthony Claravall told us that semi-recently you thought about giving the skate game a rest, getting a proper career, etc. What happened that changed your mind?
I’ve never actually properly looked for a job, but I was more interested in doing what I want to do rather than just trying to be a pro skater. I just wanted to skate how I wanted. At the time I was thinking that if I just worked for my own money I could spend it how I like and be free to skate how I like. I thought that would mean I’d enjoy my time skating more.
But then your free time for skating gets less and less… Might not end up being so fun…
Ha ha yeah it probably wouldn’t have been fun. That’s how I was thinking before Tightbooth though. There are things we have to do for the brand, but Shinpei lets me do what I want as well. If that’s the case then that’s probably best for me, right?
For how long were you filming your
part for
Lenz III
with Shinpei and the Tighbooth crew?
I remember the first time filming for the video. It was April 2018 in Osaka. At that time Tightbooth was still based in Osaka, so I would go there once every six months. Over the years my sponsors changed though, so I ended up re-filming a lot of it.
Switch heelflip, Barcelona. Photo: Gerard Riera.
So how much of your part did you have to re-film because your clothing got baggier?
Maybe half? And it wasn’t much fun. You compare everything to the first time you filmed it and sometimes the first one looked better. Or the second time you try to film it you already know you can land it, but you don’t get it so easy and it can be fucking frustrating. It’s hard to get yourself in a good state of mind. I’m glad I re-filmed it all though.
So much of the video is filmed at night. What would your typical schedule be on the day of one of those night missions?
When we were filming for
Lenz
in Osaka we would start skating around midday until it got dark around 5pm. Maybe we wouldn’t get a good clip and would still want to try and get something, so we would chill for a few hours, eat something then go out filming again and would end up being out until morning.
If we only go out at night we would usually wait until after midnight when the trains stop running to start skating because you get kicked out less and there are less pedestrians in the way. You only need one guy that calls the police on you to get kicked out so you have to wait until the middle of the night.
Do you ever get roped into holding lights and looking out for traffic when others are filming tricks? How do you feel about staffing filming sessions to help the others get clips?
They do it for me, so I have to do it for the others for it to be fair. You need staff in Japan; to look out for people, but even to look after the car while someone tries a trick. You get kicked out in two seconds so it doesn’t make sense to pay to park the car…
Claravall said that he caught you listening to the
Lion King
soundtrack once, ha ha, what kind of music do you like?
It was just once! Must have made a lasting impression… Yeah I listened to the
Lion King
soundtrack. I went to Broadway to see the musical with my family. At that time, I had the CD at home and put it into my iTunes. It was just once but Ant asks me about it from time to time.
So, what do you usually listen to?
Hip-hop, sometimes reggae, Hikaru Utada, etc.
Did you choose your own track for
Lenz III
?
No, that was Shinpei, but that track was a perfect choice. SITT is now the theme to my life.
Can we expect a Disney tune for your new part with Ant then?
No way ha ha. Ant likes Hip-hop as well so I think he understands.
Frontside nosegrind, Calafell. Photo: Gerard Riera.
Where have you travelled to with Ant for this part?
Tokyo this time, but mostly Barcelona and a bit in Lisbon.
What was your favourite European destination?
I haven’t been to so many places yet so I don’t know. Barcelona is great and Portugal was good but I haven’t been anywhere else yet. I’m a ledge skater, so if there’s a good ledge and the weather’s good I’m set.
Could you see yourself living outside of Japan one day?
If I could I’d love to. Right now I’m thinking about living in Barcelona.
You said you were heading there in January, right?
I’ve got a one-way ticket. Hopefully I’ll stay for over a year. If my visa runs out and I want to keep going by then I’d love to go to Brazil as well. For that first year, I don’t want to only stay in Barcelona but travel around Europe too. Depends how long my money lasts. If I have the funds I’d like to go to Milan, the UK and Germany… Depends on money, timing and if there’s a good filmer. I’m not worried. Everyone travels to Barcelona so it’s easy to meet people from all over Europe.
Ph. Gerard Riera
Hablas Español?
Un poco. Estudié Espańol en la universidad.
I studied for two years, but in reality you learn faster if you’re there;
al carrer de Barcelona
(on the streets of Barcelona). They only teach you weird stuff to say though ha ha.
What would you miss about Japan if you lived overseas?
7-11, public order and the food; it’s so good. You can eat beef on rice here for around 300yen (two euros) and it’s the best. For that kind of thing Japan is the best. Food for sure. 7-11 is all about the food as well.
And is there anything you wouldn’t miss?
The Japanese public generally hates skateboarding and I think that’s the worst. I don’t even want to speak to those kinds of people. I don’t even feel the need to convince them and make them understand skateboarding. I can’t stand it.
Any thank-yous or last words?
I want to say thank you to Anthony for filming, and Gerard for shooting the photos. A lot of people to thank for shooting… All my sponsors: Tightbooth, Nike SB, Spitfire, Ace Trucks, Bones Bearings, 9FIVE and FTC… All the Spanish friends that took care of me even though I couldn’t speak Spanish, and from now as well I hope you all look out for me in Barcelona.
Cheers moite.
Cheers mate.
Frontside crooked grind, Barcelona. Photo: Gerard Riera.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  April 8, 2019
Stefan Janoski – Remembering the Parts
This week we’ll be celebrating the 10th anniversary of Nike SB’s Janoski and to start things off we got Stefan to watch and talk us through every single full part he’s ever put out. A weird exercise that brought back some even weirder memories…
Digital #3
(2000)
Stefan Janoski:
Digital 3
… This was the first compiled skate video part of me.
Were those the real intro titles or something that was slapped on when the person uploaded the part to YouTube?
Oh no they’re the original ones ha ha.
Who else was in it?
Chad Muska! He was on
the cover
on a blow up couch in a swimming pool with like a rabbit on his lap.
Did you get to go on missions with him or was it everyone filming separately?
No! I didn’t even meet him… But I stayed at Bill Weiss’ house – I didn’t even know the guy – and there I met Clyde Singleton, Rune Glifberg and all these guys. This was my first time going filming with people I didn’t know.
Then this guy Dirty Dave would stay at our house to film when I lived with Kyle Leeper and his wife in Sacramento. And Dave (aka BK Dave) never wore shoes or took showers and was generally just really dirty and smelly. He was PJ Ladd’s filmer. That’s how he met PJ and Ryan Gallant…
Expedition One: Alone
(2001)
Oh, we aren’t just going to talk about
Digital 3
? This whole interview could be about
Digital 3
: the most classic skate video of all time.
Ha ha yeah what was I thinking? Nobody cares about
Mosaic
.
Ha ha. Then I guess next was Expedition?
Yep. This one was kind of your ‘breakthrough’ part… Or at least the first one everyone really remembers.
Yeah. Plus there was a lot more time to film, too. More years of compiling footage. And it was really cool as I got to skate to this song. It was before you really needed rights.
Oh yeah – its Nirvana right? You pick it?
Yeah.
It was kind of also your first few trips abroad for skating right?
Yeah. That front board was my first time in Japan…
Were you mates with Biebel and Kyle Leeper before skating for Expedition?
Yeah, yeah. So, I moved to Sacramento and became friends with Brandon and all those guys and Brandon knew all the people in Encinitas and that’s how I met Kyle because he lived down there. I got on Expedition, and right when I got on Expedition, Brandon got on Girl. So we were never actually on at the same time… But that is the reason I got on. Because of Brandon. And then Kyle got on after that.
One thing I remember was that just before I got on they had these really cool ads,
like a double page with red sequences
… But as soon as I got on the team and they changed it: I got a one page ad where they morphed the sequence together with one photo ha ha.
Boyment! ha ha…
Nike did that to me, too. They had these great ads
with shoe boxes
in people’s hands and then a cool skate photo but when I got on the team I got
this crappy photo of a kickflip
with my name down the side. And they forced me to wear these crappy orange shoes which no one wanted to wear ha ha.
I always thought if was weird that the switch flip down the big double set at Le Dome was just thrown in the middle of the part…
Oh! Yeah, that. So, you notice that you cant even see my head, right?
Yeah it’s filmed terribly…
So, that was the first time I came here to Paris. It was a Savier trip. It was the first time I went to Le Dome and I was super excited. I’m freaking out. Like, ‘Double set! Yay!’ Ollie Barton was there. That was the first time I met Ollie… I was just switch flipping the double set because I was excited and Ollie shot a sequence but there was no filmer. Elias Bingham happened to be there too so he filmed it. Just badly and with a really shitty digital camera…
That was the best thing to go down there for a very long time…
And that was the only footage… The only proof. I was like, ‘you gotta throw it in there man’. It was the biggest switch flip I’d done at the time. I didn’t really care that there wasn’t a filmer there…
Well, thank God someone did film it.
Yeah. It was a “Howl’, too.
Skateboarder Magazine
used to do these sequences where you’d have a quote to go with it and it was called a ‘Howl’. It was a double page sequence. That was probably one of the first double page spreads I had.
I remember that that trip is when I met Tim O’Connor for the first time. We took trains to Germany, Scotland and Spain…We kept going back to Paris as the hub for the journeys. It was amazing.
I was actually going to ask you about Scotland because you went back for
Mosaic
right? It’s not a very common skate trip destination…
So, yeah we went to Scotland on a Savier trip. And Brad (Staba) and Brian (Anderson) and Tim… They weren’t skating. So I went out. We had a girl who was Team Manager that just filmed us.
There was just me, her and locals. They’d be like, ‘Oh, theres this really good triple set’ and they took us. And there was Percy Dean shooting photos and again no camera… I don’t know why there was no proper filmer on any of these trips.
So, I was just that guy again. I frontside flipped that triple set, second try, no filmer and I had a photo in
Kingpin
.
Habitat: Mosaic
(2003)
So then, there was a trip for
Mosaic
and I’m like, ‘There’s this triple set in Scotland which I frontside flipped!’ and we went back but this time I did a line to the frontside flip. Ollie Barton shot that and used it as the cover of
Skateboarder
. So, I actually had doubled up on a frontside on the same spot!
Kinda dodgy.
Yep kinda dodgy! Ha ha. It wasn’t my fault, though. It was on Ollie. But I did not say no to a cover! Ha ha.
Fair enough… I remember thinking, ‘As if he just decided to try that one in a line?!’ But I guess you’d already done it so it makes more sense.
I’m still mad about that nollie flip. I don’t know why I kept going.
Nah, its good, it’s got flavour.
And I didn’t like my powerslide.
Yeah that powerslide did not slow you down one bit ha ha.
Yet I kept going…
At least it means you really went far on that frontside flip…
You see the kickflip at the beginning of the part? I couldn’t skate for months after that: I blew my heel.
On the kickflip?
No I tried to switch heel it. There may be some footage of that somewhere…
This is arguably Castrucci’s finest work… What was it like working on this with those guys?
Oh, it was huge for me at the time. I mean, I remember when I first saw the Habitat logo I just thought it was so cool. It’s hard to pick companies but you know, Habitat was just my favourite.
Where are those ledges you always skate (2:34)? Sacramento?
Yeah. Some of the best ledges in the world.
I guess what was really cool about your footage, especially here and the next couple of parts, is that there are all these Sacramento spots we expect to see you skate and associate with you… I love it when a skater has ‘his spots’ like Welsh and Pier 7 or Marfaing and ‘Le Dome’. UC Davis (2:59) is definitely one of those for… Is that one still there?
That’s my favourite place to skate. And yeah it is but they took out the rail.
Did you pick the song for this?
No, Joe (Castrucci) did. For my ender Brennan Conroy went out at three in the morning with a sledgehammer and knocked like 15 knobs off of that rail and then bondoed the holes so I could do that.
Wow…
I remember Brad (Staba) was in the car reading a newspaper when I came back. I was like, ‘I landed it!’ and he was like, ‘Nah, you didn’t’. I was like ‘I did!’ Just Brad Staba being a dick…
Transworld: Subtleties
(2004)
So,
Subtleties
. What’s the backstory? How come you got to work on a
Transworld
video with all your mates in it? Were you involved in the process of picking who would be in it?
No it was all Jon Holland and Jason Hernandez. But we were all just really good friends. It was their idea. They picked us all. Pat Duffy, Brandon, Kyle and Wenning and me. It was really fun… In fact so fun that we kept doing trips together even after we finished this video. We’d go to Spain every year, stuff like that.
The old classic
Transworld
intro with the voiceover…
Yeah. Jason picked this song. At the time I was a bit unsure about it just because they were almost too popular to use.
It felt a bit bait?
Yeah… But I really like it now.
I love that flushing line… I feel it played a big part in that whole oversized jumper trend that was big in skating for a few years
Yeah, I’ve always been a really big fan of crew necks… Fat Bill filmed it and I remember we partied for a like week after we got it aha.
What was it like going on trips with Wenning?
Ah, man. He was great. He was like totally next… in every way. Especially back then. He was so good and so entertaining to be around…
[Interruption from someone saying ‘Stefan’s been doing interviews all day so he’s probably tired you should try to wrap this up’.]
Ah sorry, we can just stop whenever you are over it.
Play the video, I love watching myself. Ha ha ha.
Habitat: Inhabitants
(2007)
I was a bit worried about trying this because sometimes sitting around watching your own footage with people can feel pretty weird.
No, I don’t know…I think its cool.  I don’t sit around watching my video parts very much so… it’s kinda fun. At least, that’s what I am going to say for an interview ha ha. No but seriously that’s why we made these videos. I think it would be worse if you were like, ‘What we aren’t going to acknowledge is all the videos you’ve made’. This is good. As long as you aren’t like ‘Hey, your videos suck. How did you even get a shoe?’
I was actually waiting for the shoe to pop onto that screen to hit you with that…
Ha ha! What video is this? Oh, its
Inhabitants
! I personally think that this is the best representation of me. When you are trying to film a video part they never feel complete but this one feels the most complete out of all of them. I love this song, too.
I feel like this video was the best representation of a lot of people… Molinar especially.
Yeah. I mean, this whole video was just really good. And I guess this is the first time I had the last part which is pretty big.
Are those Adidas on that tre flip to fakie (1:34)? What’s going on there?
Yeah. I didn’t have a shoe sponsor.
Were you flow or almost going to get on at one point?
I almost got on a lot of brands at that point…
But obviously this is when you went for Nike as they start popping up in this one…
Yeah. I got on at the end of filming for this video, when they were filming for
Nothing But The Truth
. So, my stuff in
Nothing But the Truth
is actually only filmed on four Nike trips. Whatever I got on those trips, Nike was keeping and then everything else was for this video.
So, you weren’t allowed to pick and chose to balance the parts out?
No. It was whoever was working for whichever company. So, if I was filming with Joe it was for the Habitat part. If I was with Joey Digital or Chris Middlesbrook it was for the Nike part.
This feels like the last video with all your classic Sacramento spots.
Yeah, very true.
Is that something you miss?
Yeah… It just got harder and harder to skate them. Also, these spots, they didn’t change. So if I already did a trick, well I don’t want to one up myself. Or rather I can’t ha ha.
Is that switch flip crook the hardest trick you’d say you’ve ever filmed?
Yeah, probably. It definitely took me the most amount of times going back.
How many times?
Well, actually Brandon and I were skating there. He was trying nollie flip crooks and I was trying switch flip crooks but on the 7-stair rail. Then he landed it one day and I didn’t. So I kept trying but it was kinda like my buddy was gone… Since I like the 8-stair rail better anyway, I switched over and then I actually landed it!
Nike SB: Nothing But The Truth
(2007)
This intro!
This is one I am very curious about. The the first Nike project you did involved you getting thrown up on by your mate… What’s the story behind that? How did you take it?
It was just one of those things where every single person on the team kept telling everyone that this was a really bad idea… But they’d hired this company to do it and obviously it really backfired… It sucks because a lot of the skating is really good.
Yeah it’s banging! That Gino footage is gold.
Yeah, it’s so good… They were even saying that there was going to be a version without the skits. But after the premiere tour and we’d gone round the world with it they kind of just decided to never talk about it again.
To be honest my part felt really rushed anyway because as I said it was only filmed on four Nike trips…  But it’s the only part where I ever had homie tricks and I was super hyped to have Kyle and Biebel in there!
So do you usually prefer filming at home? Are you the kind of guy that spends ages thinking about tricks, making lists etc.?
I actually really like spontaneous stuff. Like all of this was really cool because it was pretty much the first time I had been to all of these places. It’s just that it didn’t feel like enough… Or maybe not the first time, but it felt fresh, all the spots were new. Some had never even been skated before… So, you’d think ‘Oh, I could do this trick!’ and there wasn’t a giant list of names and what had already been done.
I’ve never really liked planning because I never like knowing what I want to try in the car on the way there. That I find that super stressful…  I’d rather get there and see what’s working. If I say ‘I’m going to go to Davis and I’m going to tre flip the gap’ then in the car with the filmers, I’d be like ‘Oh, man. Am I? I hope am. I mean I’d like to…’ and then you get there and you don’t want to try. So, I think it’s just better if it’s like ‘let’s just go there and see what happens…see how you feel.’
Some people have it planned out for days.
It’s hard to like force a trick. You know? When you are like, ‘I want to get that trick on film.’, well for me its harder than being like, ‘This spot inspires me to want to do this trick.’ So, you want to do this trick because for you, the spot is calling for it, instead of ‘I need to get footage!’ It feels good and more fun that way. Also, sometimes I just wouldn’t tell anyone. I’d know what I wanted to try but I’d be like, ‘No! I just want to go look at it.’
It’s the safer option… You are kind of claiming it but just to yourself.
Exactly.
Habitat: Origin
(2010)
I really like the animations they did for our intros in this video…
This one’s got the first appearance of the Janoski.
Oh yeah. And the first appearance of a wallie switch crook!
Yeah! Is there some kind of correlation? Ha ha…
No, no… I just think I’d figured that trick out so started doing them everywhere. I lived in New York at this time… In Brooklyn.
At this point, is the shoe already really popular?
I don’t think so… I mean, this is still when they were pretty new. Actually, there might even be the samples in this. So yeah, this is still very fresh.
Can you pinpoint when it gets popular from looking at the colourways?
Sometimes… Like actually I just saw the
Tiffany colourway
and I think people were excited about that one but I’m not really that interested… But they do tell me about that stuff.
Nike SB: Chronicles 1
(2011)
Alright: last part! I guess this was Jason Hernandez as well. What was it like working with him on this one?
So, with Jason… Well, even before
Subtleties
, we were always really good friends. I love filming with Jason, he’s like the best skateboard filmer, you know? It’s so fun to get tricks on film with him because he makes everything look so good… Plus he really gets extra credit because you can tell he really enjoys filming. So, this was just really fun with him, Clark (Hassler), Grant (Taylor) and Lewis (Marnell)… Chet (Childress)! The whole crew was just so fun to skate with.
Was this your first time meeting Youness? He looks so young in this one…
Oh yeah, this was Youness’ first proper video part and my first time meeting him. He was like the most mature, take-care-of-himself kid. Him and Grant are the same age, but they are totally different versions of the same age. But they’d just feed off each other… Youness at the premiere of this was just like the cutest thing in the world. He was all psyched to be here, like super hyped, calling his brother at home, making us all teary-eyed.
He made it cooler for us because we were all just a bit like ‘Uh, yeah. Cool.’ It wasn’t our first premiere… Whereas he was like, ‘I can’t believe I am in a video with all of these guys!’ and that made us feel real special too. I love him… And man, he is so good.
He just sits down for ages and then when he gets up it’s to do the gnarliest trick and then sits back down again right?
Yeah he has no warm up… ‘I don’t need anything except cigarettes, Doritos and a Coke!’ [in a Youness voice]… And he’s actually telling the truth. That’s all he needs! He’ll then skate huge gaps and huge rails and you’ll ask ‘Are you hungry Youness?’ and he’s all ‘NO! Give me some Doritos and I am good.’ Ha ha.
So, this song… I picked this song. I said to Jason I wanted this song and he’s like ‘I can’t edit to this song. I don’t know how to edit weird.’ So I was like ‘you don’t have to edit weird. Just edit normal and the song will be weird.’ But then he told me he ended up having to edit the song as it had these longer, even weirder sections.
‘I don’t know how to edit weird’, ha ha.
Oh, I’ve got another good story about this. Some people at Nike were like, ‘So, you don’t have any hammers to end your part’ and I was like, ‘Oh, well…there’s no such thing as Hammers. That’s just a slang word Jim Greco made up. So, what are you talking about?’
‘Oh, you need a banger and some after blacks’ and I’m like ‘Just use a line. I don’t want a last trick. Use a line.’ But, yeah… That was told to me.
That’s pretty funny. It’s sick that you managed to convince them.
I like it when people do things differently. People get too stuck in formulas.
Well we’ve watched all your parts.
That was fun! In ten years I’ll have a couple more!

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  October 23, 2015
Huf Europe: Street Dancing In The Rain
Simo Makela, wallride nollie.
All photos are by Fabien Ponsero. Words are by Steve Forstner.
Street dancing in the rain tour would be the best title for this lil’ trip we undertook. We were not blessed with much sunshine or even just dry ground in general. But hey, it is what it is and we still had a good time, shared a bunch of laughs and yes, we played with our wooden planks as well.
Welcome to the European HUF team. This is the first official tour of the crew. The members are Simo Makela, Rory Milanes and myself. I have the pleasure of taking care of this squadron of skateboard artists. Also along for your visual pleasure was Mr. Fabi Ponsero.
Plus as special guest in Berlin one of Austria’s finest humans Sebi Dorfer joined in on some of the fun.
I guess in some way, tour is not the correct term for this adventure since we did not really tour around. We spent one week in Vienna being hounded by constant rain showers that somehow always knew when and where we wanted to skate. From there we jumped on a plane and flew to Berlin to see if the currywurst was a worthy opponent of Vienna’s sausage madness. The amount of sausages consumed on this trip were high to say the least. Especially in Vienna it is not easy to find cheap food later in the evening – so the local sausage stands become the go to. During the day it ends up being bread with wurst and cheese from the supermarkets and by the time you know it, a week has passed and you’ve only managed to eat one meal that did not include a wurst. Our French gourmet Fabi had a breakdown and decided he would not have another wurst. So he pretty much went on a 24-hour wurst strike, but made the mistake of solely consuming cheeseburgers from McDonald’s during this period. That ended up backfiring on him and he finally accepted that “The Wurst is the Best”. I guess Fabi was kind of the MVP on this trip but I will explain that later.
Sebi Dorfer, frontside smith.
Like I mentioned before Vienna’s weather did not really like us. It rained everyday except one. This is always bad when you are on tour because you do feel that you have a certain obligation to collect photos and video material. Somehow it always started with a slight drizzle once we were nice and warmed up at a spot. You know that little drizzle where you think or hope it might just stop any second and be ok. Of course it never did and once somebody really started to try and skate the spot the downpour came. In Vienna Simo was the rain’s prime target. As soon as he would try to skate something the clouds would come rushing in. This definitely tested his mental strength and at times he would lose his composure. I can’t really blame him since it felt like he was cursed or blessed by the rain, depending on how you wanna see it. Eventually a can of beer exploded inside his backpack while on the Metro. From then on it was clear that Simo and Vienna would most likely never become pals. But somehow, against all odds, Simo did kill it in Vienna. Especially the famous Naschmarkt bump over bar with Jersey barriers… He slaughtered them.
Big thanks to all the lovely people that helped us out and came to shred with us in Vienna: Spoff boys, Muki, Sebi Binder, Johannes Wahl, Ante and many more.
Rory Milanes, gap to frontside noseblunt.
After a week of fun in Austria’s capital we boarded a plane to the German capital: Berlin. I love Berlin and know it very well since I did live there for a few years. This led to us arriving and enjoying a wonderful night at the Franken bar. I think it is the only bar in all of Europe that is actually pleased to see me when I show up. Obviously the next day was kind of difficult but luckily for us the rain from Vienna had followed us and now instead of occasional showers it just poured all day long for about 3-4 days. Now as nice as it is to see some rain when you are hungover, it does really start to suck after a few hours. Plus when it is a couple days of rain you start to see the madness creep into the skaters’ eyes. You can try to distract yourself by going to museums or pretend to be interested in art shows but nothing can replace that oh so very important time that you need on your skateboard. Luckily we did get a few days to skate in Berlin as well. The only problem was that we did not have bikes to get around. In Berlin it is really difficult to skate a lot of spots in one day without a bike. Distances are far and the ground is generally crap. Luckily I know the city quite well and with the help of Valeri Rosemako we managed to skate some spots. Plus if there was no spot really to be seen then Sebi Dorfer always managed to find some crazy stunt opportunity. Sebi was in Berlin with his trusted van “Walter” and decided to join our skate any dry moment quest. He is always a good man to have around since he will skate anything and when I say anything I mean anything. If there is nothing but a big crack in the ground he will find a way to skate it.
Steve Forstner, frontsid wallride.
We did manage to eat better in Berlin since food is cheap and good, plus you can pretty much find anything imaginable. That was a relief because I don’t think my body could have handled another wurst.
Now I will come back to my claim that Fabi was the MVP on this trip. Fabi had been on tour for a month straight already before this endeavour, so obviously he was a tad bit burnt out. Then the rain came, which never helps if your spirits are already a bit low. Somehow he managed to keep it all going pretty well despite the fact that he was a bit on edge. Until the last night that is… Last tour nights are always great, you are happy and sad at the same time. You are happy that it’s over in one way but also sad to say goodbye to your homies.
Sebi Dorfer, ollie 50-50.
Our last night started out very well. We stopped by an art show of a friend and had some free beers. That always gets motivation levels up. After that we moved on to a bar with a massive crew. I could tell Fabi was gonna go gnarly because there were enough French speakers around for him to let loose. So my TM brain kicked in and I took his camera bag and tripods home to the apartment. I ended up being too lazy to go back out and called it a night. When I woke up I knew we would have to check out of our Airbnb flat, so I took it upon myself to clean a bit and get it all ready. Rory had already left the day before, so there were just Fabi and Simo left to wake up. I got them up and told them to get ready to leave. At this point Fabi had realised that he lost his phone the night before. This explained why his board looked like he had tried to skate a 40-stair rail. He basically spent the next two hours screaming around in French, hating on the whole world and repeatedly hitting himself in the head. Since according to him his whole life was in that phone. I did feel for him in a way but at the same time I had to laugh because it was like watching a lil’ kid throw a fit over not getting ice cream or something like that. At some point I managed to get him to pack his things and we left the flat. He was still so angry and did not want any help so Simo and me had to leave him by himself in the courtyard of the building. There was simply no talking to him. Normally I would not leave a friend behind but Fabi was actually not present at this time. Plus I knew he could take care of himself.
Well kids the moral of this story is: “Back up your shit to a computer.” Oh and have fun on your skateboard rain or shine.

================================================================================

BY admin  •  February 17, 2023
S/S 2023 Free Skate Mag Shirts
HDV tee
A sculpture from the iconic Hôtel De Ville plaza in Lyon, reimagined by Daniel Clarke.
100% cotton, 240 gsm, pre-washed fabric, made in Portugal.
Pool Boys tee
Another Daniel Clarke piece, this time paying tribute to skateboarders’ second favourite pastime.
100% cotton, 240 gsm, pre-washed fabric, made in Portugal.
Marrakech tee
Our classic Marrakech tee, back by popular demand this season in white.
100% cotton, 240 gsm, pre-washed fabric, made in Portugal.
Yeah Buoy tee
Probably our most fried shirt to date, which is saying a lot given that
zooted frog
from Charlie Birch’s cover made it on one last time… Love it 🙂
Designed by Nat Jones for Free.
100% cotton, 240 gsm, pre-washed fabric, made in Portugal.
Solar System tee
Essentially Max Palmer’s pro shirt. Also the shirt Kyle Wilson wore
the day
he decided to switch back tail a waist-high rock in Brixton.
Designed by Nat Jones for Free.
100% cotton, 240 gsm, pre-washed fabric, made in Portugal.
Connoisseur’s Choice tee
As a reader of Free we know you’re a connoisseur of the finer things. Nat Jones captures the essence of fine dining and choice red wine with this nod to New Yorker style editorial illustration. Drink up!
100% cotton, 240 gsm, pre-washed fabric, made in Portugal.
UK
Bored of Southsea
,
Brixtons Baddest
,
CSC
,
Consume
,
Focus,
Forty Two
,
Forw4rd
,
Ideal
,
Native
,
Natterjacks
,
Note
,
Ozzys
,
Palomino
,
Penloe
,
Seed,
Slam City Skates
,
Source
,
Welcome
(Leeds),
The Vines
Europe
Lockwood
(Antwerp),
Banc Public Skatestore
,
Wall Street
(Lyon),
Frontline Skateshop
,
Rufus
(MACBA),
Rufus
(Milan),
Welcome
(Madrid),
Collective
,
Slidebox
(Strasbourg),
Titus
,
Pivot
,
Yago
,
Lenzos
,
Sprouters
,
Milk
,
Lobby
,
ABS
(Grenoble),
Mojito
,
Dark Blue
,
Frame
,
Barely
,
Miniramp
,
Voyka
,
Pal Pal
,
Ministry Of Concrete
,
Annex / Hunting Lodge
,
Plan-B Funsport
,
Told You So
,
Skateshop San Sebastian
,
Wallride
,
Bonkers
,
Cybercafe
,
Nief
,
247 Store
,
Medium
,
Pereffs
US
303 Boards
,
Minus
,
Orchard
,
Plush
,
Plus Skate
,
Prooflab
,
The Block
,
Union
,
Wonder

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 16, 2021
Drive or Be Driven
Photography by Alan Maag
Words by Stu Smith
Hi. I’ll be your writer for today… If you have conducted all the relevant safety checks, then please proceed in an orderly fashion, reading left to right, and stopping or pausing where indicated…
As far as driving a car goes, I was a late starter. I didn’t want to, no need, lucky enough to have a skateboard and a bike (in that order), and live in one of the busiest cities on Earth with excellent infrastructure. But, by the time I was 38, the pressure of having a business and a family soon caught up with me, and after a failed theory, and five failed practical tests, I passed with flying colours and kissed my driving examiner. That day I not only walked away with a driving licence, I also gained something very powerful, the licence to drive others.
Martino Cattaneo, frontside nose pick, Grimsel, Switzerland. Ph. Alan Maag
My instructor for the previous five tests had been an infuriating man called Cliff who had a catchphrase he loved to say at every available opportunity, ‘Come on Stuart, let’s keep London moving!’ Fucking ‘Stuart’? Fucking annoying! Cliff was an interesting bloke. He was in his 60s, and as far as I could work out from the near 18 months of lessons that I had with him, he and his wife had run a very successful lingerie company together for many years manufacturing in Greece, eventually selling it to a Chinese firm and making a fortune. Cliff had no reason to work. In his own words, he only did the job of a driving instructor to, and I quote: ‘keep my hand in’. Now in his best years, it was very clear that Cliff only really did this job because Cliff loved ‘To Drive’. Those dual controls, that route planning, and lesson scheduling, it all appealed to Cliff, because Cliff could be the boss, and for every lesson that I had, was in complete control of my destiny (my destiny usually being up the London North Circular and back). Cliff drove me fucking mental, but on the day I ‘won’ driving, Cliff passed me the baton, an invigoration into the seat of ‘Back Seat Driver’.
So what exactly is a backseat driver? ‘A passenger who gives unasked-for and usually unwanted advice to the driver of a vehicle (it doesn’t have to come from the back seat); by extension, anyone who interferes without having real responsibility or authority.’
Aaron Wilmot, Weddle air, Beast DIY, Zurich. Ph. Alan Maag
Now any fool can tell you that you don’t really learn to drive until you pass your test, and for me that was totally true, but, I took to the role of ‘back seat driving’ (BSD) instantly and, even if I do say so myself, brilliantly. It was only after two months of passing, DVLA approved photo-card nestled proudly in my wallet, that I BSD’d my wife so hard that, doing 80mph on the M4, she threatened to send us into the central reservation and kill us both if I didn’t SHUT THE FUCK UP! Ten minutes after this harrowing experience we were both sat in silence at the motorway services car park sipping tea and shaking. To this date the angriest I’ve ever seen her, and some of my finest work. Thank you Cliff, for seeing my potential.
Ok, you’re gonna want to make a left turn at the bottom of this page.
The name Driver actually comes from a well-to-do family originally from De Rivers in Normandy, and it is from this location that their surname ‘derives’. Because of its close ties with Britain, this popular French name became very common in England. Some say its origins are from the ancient word ‘driffan’ and later ‘drevere’ and is an occupational surname for a transport contractor, a driver of horse or oxen teams.
Schianta Lepori, kickflip, Zurich. Ph. Alan Maag
Where the hell am I going with this??? Well… if you’d just let me drive!
Last summer a small crew of us headed to Switzerland. From the get-go, bound for the Alps in Ewen’s Caravel, the driving began, and it came from all angles. First and foremost from Ewen (Bower) himself (who by-the-way is a very proficient driver), closely followed by Sox, imparting his wisdom on Ewen’s boarding of the Eurostar, to every time he was reversing, where upon Sox would jump out of the van and fluidly guide him into a space (even if there was nothing around him). Soon, everyone was driving everyone. We’d ‘drive’ people’s tricks, the spots we wanted to skate, the alcohol we’d have in the van, the food we were all gonna eat.  (The irony is, that the moment Sox was upfront in the Van, we ran a speed camera. Turns out Sox, can only drive from the back). The plan, was to meet our ‘Team Trouble’ motorcade in Zurich, and from there head to the mountains and explore. Speaking of explore, check this and tell me it doesn’t sound familiar… The French word ‘dérive’ means to ‘drift’ and was defined by artist Guy Debord as ‘a mode of experimental behaviour linked to the conditions of urban society….’. It is an unplanned journey through a landscape, usually urban, in which participants drop their everyday relations and ‘let themselves be drawn by the attractions of the terrain and the encounters they find there.’
Sox, frontside stalefish, Sierreside DIY, Sierre.
Derive… Der’ive….D’rive…DRIVE ON!… and drive on we did! Four vans, each full of people with ideas, each with knowledge, each with some serious personal drive.
When you first pick up a skateboard, it’s because you’re motivated. Be it because your mates skate, or just to escape reality, or your parents skate and you want some healthy bonding (shortcut to the swings). Even if you’re not 100% into it, you’ll happily get dragged along for a while. But, after the constant falling over, if the desire to stay upright is not the driving force to continue, you’ll soon give up. It’s these attempts and desires to avoid failure, that drives the pursuit of success. You need THAT drive, and no amount of bullying, or promises of apre-skate hot chocolate will sweeten the deal. That drive is personal, a drive from within, a solo, head facing forward, streetlights zooming past, techno blaring, foot to the floor kind of a drive. Once you possess this drive, you’ll find it’s infectious. Countless ‘Business Gurus’ will tell you that it’s your personal drive that turns ideas into action and action into results. It also sets the tone for what you are seeking from others in an organisation. The premise being, that if you are enthusiastic about your work, you will probably generate a similar level of enthusiasm among your team members.
Ben Broyd, invert transfer, Beast DIY, Zurich. Ph. Alan Maag
We’ll soon be approaching the end of the words on this page, and you’ll want to turn over. You’ll see when you run out of words. Uhuh, that’s right, yep… GO! GO! GO!
This self-motivation is, in its simplest form, the force that drives you to success, and it can drive others, even in the face of setbacks, to take up opportunities, and to show commitment to what they want to achieve. It’s this that gives you the right to BSD! Because you can see the potential in your friends… You want to see them succeed. You know this is true when it’s you sat on the bench screaming at your mate, who’s already covered in blood and dirt, ‘COME ON! THREE MORE TRIES!’
Sometimes you can see that someone knows where they’re going, but you know they need a helping hand, a little pat on the bum, or even an outright order. It’s not like you’re saying, ‘I could do it better’, more like, ‘If I could do it, I’d fucking go for it like this!’
Jordan Thackeray, Madonna, Undervelier. Ph. Alan Maag
Drive or be Driven!
There were plenty of moments like this on this trip. A 40-strong crew headed down the mountainside towards a mythical fullpipe. All of us boards in hand, the majority of us knowing we weren’t going to set foot on them, but all of us hungry to get behind those that were. Only a handful were responsible for the tricks that went down that day, but not solely. There wasn’t a person there that didn’t believe in those that were trying, and I like to think that it took the collective drive of all 40 of us that made it such a successful mission.
If there were any doubt in the minds of anyone skating, then those doubts would have been quickly quashed by the hive mind of our positive thinking crew, all of us at the wheel… ‘I believe in me, therefore, I believe in you…’
In this spirit quest for skateboarding, photos and film, it was the ones drying concrete, paling water, building dams and diverting streams that helped get the job done. It happened like this constantly, often seconds before the cops showed up or the dark set in. This sort of driving pushes and motivates.
Elliott Auffray, frontside ollie, Grimsel. Ph. Alan Maag
If lockdown has shown me one thing, it’s that I have very little drive when skating by myself. I miss being pushed, being heckled, being beaten at S.K.A.T.E…. I miss being driven. It makes me realise how lucky we were to find a moment in time, during the whole 2020 madness, where we could skip borders and join our Euro brothers and sisters, and just go for a drive.
So, let’s hear it for the drivers! And let’s hear it for back seat drivers!
Thank you for reading. Please carry on and turn the page at the next available opportunity. Or maybe you’d prefer to stop and have a tea? Excellent, allow me to drive that for you… You’ll have milk, no sugar.
Click on the gallery below for more
View Gallery | 29 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 11, 2015
Johan Stuckey Interview
Johan Stuckey talks about his previous sponsors, moving to LA from Florida and the formation of
WKND
. Nice interview from
What Youth
. Click the image above for the video interview…

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 6, 2020
Marcus Shaw Interview
Switch backside flip, Berlin. Ph. Sam Ashley
I was well aware of Marcus before I started skating; he was born the day after me. I have vivid memories of him skating back and forth to school popping flip tricks, uniform on and ginger hair peeking out from under his trucker cap.
When I eventually picked up a skateboard it became painfully apparent he was light years ahead of me and our age group. I was struggling with kickflips and he was 360 flipping four stairs. 13-year-olds shouldn’t be able to 360 flip.
On MSN messenger his profile picture was him skating with an éS logo branded on top; I genuinely thought he was sponsored by them. Later I found out he had made it himself.
When he moved to Norway we kept in touch; we would exchange footage. His progression has always been rapid. Suddenly he was skating switch really well and doing super tech stuff on ledges.
I was stoked that he wanted to come back to Edinburgh to shoot some stuff for
Free
. Especially when he’s handled some NBDs that many people wouldn’t even consider.
It’s rad to see him doing things like this interview; he’s come a long way since that fake éS advert. – Miles Kondracki
Interview by Will Harmon
What’s your full name?
My full name is Marcus Alexander Shaw of Tordarroch.
Can you explain that?
It’s a Scottish clan name. I got it from my dad who is from Scotland. It’s a clan that’s based in the north of Scotland near Inverness. I was born in Scotland.
Does your family name have its own Scottish tartan print/pattern?
Yeah we actually do have our own tartan in the family. It’s pretty dope.
Do you ever rock it?
I used to have a kilt when I was around 13 or 14, but then I grew and it just turned into a mini-skirt…
Ha ha. So what was it like being back in Edinburgh to shoot for this interview?
It was really good, but kinda strange actually too because we went back to all the places I used to skate as a kid.
Did they seem smaller?
Yeah, all of them man. Bristo (Square) is basically where I started skating so going back there now was a bit of a bummer as it’s all renewed now; it’s different.
50-50 along and up, Edinburgh. Ph. Sam Ashley
The step statue/monument they kept the same though right?
Yeah, I wanted to get something on that, but there’s knobs on the first two steps now. There’s no knobs on the third one, which is really high, but good, but when we went last week there was a festival going on there so they put like grass over the whole plaza. So we didn’t get to skate there really, which is a bit of a bummer.
What was it like growing up there? How did you discover skateboarding?
I think I first got into it when I lived outside, close to Inverness. My first board was a small plastic banana board thing, but I think that got run over by a car or something so I just left it (skateboarding) for a couple of years. I moved back and forth between Norway and Scotland a few times, so it was when I moved back to Scotland and I was in primary school I got into it again.
I started skating properly with a friend of mine called Miles Kondracki from Edinburgh. We went to primary school together.
So did you see Miles when you were back in Edinburgh last week?
Yeah we met for a coffee. We couldn’t skate together because he was away mostly on a holiday; the timing was bad. But yeah that’s who I used to skate with back in the day when we were super young. That’s kinda how I remember getting into it, just skating by our primary school with Miles and my other friends Daniel Nicholas and Liam McCreanor. And then later on we started going to Bristo. At that time the scene there at the Square was really good. We skated there a full two to three years before we fully got into the skate scene like hanging out at skate shops and reading the magazines. At that time Blueprint was the big thing: Colin Kennedy, Nick Jensen…
Famous Scotsman John Rattray?
Yeah he was big, but I never got the chance to see him skate live. I’d see Colin Kennedy though.
Switch backside tailslide, Edinbugh. Ph. Sam Ashley
Maybe John had moved to California by then.
Yeah I think it was around that time. There were so many other insanely good skaters at Bristo though; I think they used to ride for
Focus (Skate Shop)
back in the day. I remember going to the premiere of Blueprint’s
Lost & Found
, it was the first kind of skate premiere thing my mum let me go to. I was about 13 or 14 and I think this was around the time or the same year I moved away.
So why did you move to Norway?
The thing is my dad is Scottish and my mum’s from Norway. I guess they figured out later that the jobs were better in Norway and it would be a nice place for me to grow up.
Did you have to learn how to speak Norwegian or had your mother already taught you?
It was actually quite natural. I think I just spoke both languages from a young age, but I reckon when I moved my Norwegian probably wasn’t that good.
Frontside 180 kickflip, Oslo. Ph. Lars Gartå
So when you moved over to Norway, do you remember the first skaters you met?
I moved to a place 20 minutes outside of Oslo called Asker. I met a guy, Daniel Spiro, and he was quite good, so after hanging out with him I eventually started hanging out more with the kids in Oslo. I think that’s what made me get into skating more and developing if you know what I mean? Because there wasn’t much of that in Edinburgh for me: it was just kind of having fun skating ledges and then I moved to Norway and ‘oh shit! They’re quite good here, they skate stairs and the spots are good.’
Oh OK the level was really high there in Norway…
Yeah it was actually. I remember when we were kids, the only thing we really had in Edinburgh was Bristo and I think I maybe went to two skateparks: Perth once or twice and Livingston a couple of times… Then I came here and it wasn’t the ledge spot kind of thing, it was more stairs and I don’t know, it was just different.
So by your new friends you were kinda forced to skate that bigger stuff?
Yeah. So for that first year I just skated with guys in Asker and then after that I’d go to Oslo more and that’s when I met Magnus (Bordewick) and those guys.
Switch ollie, Oslo. Ph. Lars Gartå
So would you agree that moving to Norway helped you progress?
I think so yeah. I reckon I wouldn’t be as good a skater if I stayed in Scotland.
Have you ever thought about moving back?
I mean I have actually, but just for a short while. It would be fun to do for maybe a year or something.
Have you ever thought about living elsewhere in the world aside from Oslo?
I was studying before; I did a 3-year degree (in Product Design) so I was stuck here a bit, but now I’m working and I could do it.
Where would you go?
I’ve been to Berlin a lot, so I have a lot of homies there. I’ve been on like three to four longer trips there so I’ve been thinking about that maybe. I mean I’ve travelled quite a bit, but I’ve never travelled outside of Europe skate-wise. I went to Asia for a couple months, but I’ve never been to the States, so I don’t really know what it’s like there.
Backside lipslide, Berlin. Ph. Sam Ashley
Neil Chester told me you were a pretty serious diver when you were younger. How did you get into this and why did you stop?
Yeah this was when I was in Edinburgh, like in primary school. When you’re a kid everything is cool: you have bikes, skateboards, you try everything and I just liked going to the pool and jumping off diving boards. Then I found out that they were doing proper diving courses and I started with my mate Liam. We’d skate together and then we’d go to these diving things and he went with me for about a year and then he was over it, but I kept on doing it. I got better and better at it and I went to some type of talent thing in Sheffield… I dunno diving was a really small sport in Scotland at that time so if anyone had potential they would really try and bring it out of them because they wanted to do this national team for Scotland and everything.
Oh OK…
So I would go to the Royal Commonwealth Pool in Edinburgh like two to three times a week and it was serious… It was almost the same as gymnastics, you’d have a coach and you’d have to do a half an hour of dry training or strength training with pull-ups, push-ups and all that stuff before you could get in the water.
And so how old were you for this?
I think I was about 11 when I started. So I was going to these small competitions around England and Scotland at the start and then we moved to Norway. Then I started going to a diving club near where I lived and that’s when it got more serious. I was doing a lot of competitions and travelling around but at the same time I was doing the skate thing and I don’t know I always like both of them, but the skate thing was always what I liked the most.
Marcus Shaw, Glasgow, 2019. Ph. Sam Ashley
So one day you just decided not to dive competitively anymore?
Yeah, I think I was around 15 or 16. I guess you could say I was at kind of a high level so I was going to the Norwegian championships and stuff and I think I may have gotten a few medals actually…
Sick!
Yeah but then it just didn’t work… My friends were skating more and they were like, ‘ah you’re never skating and you have to go to this fucking diving practice four to five times a week!’ So then I realised I had to just choose one of them and then naturally ‘no one’s telling me what to do, I can do this when I want, so…’
And what did your parents think about you choosing skating over diving?
To be honest I don’t think they cared much. They were like, ‘do what you wanna do.’ I mean with that sport if you want to make money or go far with it I think you have to go to the Olympics.
It’s not like you can just film for your next diving video part…
It’s really funny in the competitions because of how it works… It’s not like ‘OK it’s your go’ and you go off the diving board and do a cool trick, it’s like ‘this is this guy and he’s doing this dive.’
Backside 180 kickflip, Glasgow. Ph. Sam Ashley
Oh so you have to do a particular dive…
Yeah. It’s like if it’s your turn you gotta do a switch tre flip and you get marked on how good your switch tre is.
I can see how that could get old…
Yeah and to be honest it got to the point where it was also really scary.
Did you ever hit your head like some divers do?
Yeah one, well I didn’t smack my actual head, but I was doing a dive where you kind of go backwards but you go forwards and it was with some somersaults and I flipped around, because often to do a good dive you have to be as close to the diving board as possible, and I ended up whacking my arms and my head was this close (Marcus puts his fingertips an inch apart) to the board and it was right on the back so it could have been fucked up. So that really shook me a bit and I just realised skating was easier or rather I was more stoked on doing it. It was fun though; I’ll still pull out a little dive now and then. I did a double backflip last summer. I still know all the techniques so I do it the way I was told to do it; it’s funny.
Pekka (Per Lovas) showed me
your diving meme
…
I knew he was gonna mention this!
Ha ha ha… Who made it and how did your friends find out about it?
It’s such a funny story… This is from one of these diving trips. It was at a time when I was diving for a club in Norway. We went to this training camp in Riccione, Italy and I think I was just doing a lot of somersaults and you go fast, it’s like g-force and this guy from another club in Stavanger took a picture of it with his new camera. It was so sharp and he showed me the picture and I was like, ‘oh my god!’ and we just looked at the picture for ages.
50-50 grind, Berlin. Ph. Sam Ashley
Your face…
I was like, ‘what happened?’ My face looks photo-shopped; it doesn’t look real. But I saw it right then after he shot it; it’s real. And then so years went on and there was something on Facebook about reminiscing about the old days, ‘diving trip 2007’ or some shit and my friend put the album on Facebook and this picture was in there and I guess someone in his network, one of his friends in Stavanger or something took the picture and reposted it like, ‘this is insane!’ And then it just got posted with the words Cannonderp or Gingerderp…
What is derp? Is that Norwegian?
To be honest I’m not too sure, but basically it got used for tons of memes.
OK but then how did your skate friends find out it was you?
This is the most insane part… So I saw the picture on Facebook when the guy from Stavanger originally posted it, but then I didn’t think it would come up again. And then my skate friend Thomas, from Asker, he was like, ‘hey I was on this fail blog and I saw this picture…’ And then I think he showed me it, like, ‘you have to see this shit!’ and then he had spent a lot of time with me and he was like, ‘Is this you?’ He must have recognised something distinct and I was like, ‘what the fuck!’ and that’s how it kind of came out. That pic was actually on a web page and still to this day people will be like, ‘ah have you seen this diving photo of Marcus?’ Ha ha…
It doesn’t even look like you though. It looks so weird…
I think it’s funny; it’s timeless. It’s gonna follow me for the rest of my life.
Nollie 180 switch crooks, Oslo. Ph. Olav Stubberud
Well it sounds like it doesn’t bother you too much, that’s good. OK subject change… Before we knew who you were, my friends and I referred to you as the Norwegian Rob Welsh, because of your trick selection and steezy outfits. Is he your favourite skater?
That’s really funny actually; I would say he was one of my all time favourites. I’ve always liked his trick selection especially. In the
Fully Flared
days, the way I dressed when I was a kid you wouldn’t believe it, but even still then it was more trick inspiration from him even though I dressed a completely different way. But then when you get older you just find out what’s your thing. Skateboarders, I feel like they go through these weird phases with clothing… The hesh/fresh thing; I was hesh, wearing tight red trousers.
Well it seems to have changed for you now. Every clip I see of you these days you have a new flashy windbreaker, baggy trackies and sometimes neon shoes. How important is the right outfit for you when you go skate?
I’m quite into fashion, well street fashion. I worked at a sneaker store for one and a half years so I got really into sneakers and all that. Then I guess I care about it when I watch skateboarding too.
Who has the best fits right now in skateboarding?
I’d say Lucien Clarke; he’s got some wild shit going on. And most of the Palace guys look pretty dope, who else? Magnus (Bordewick)… It’s funny Magnus and I care a lot about that shit. We trade stuff like, ‘what tracksuit pants are those? They have a good fit…’
In Pekka’s
Firetre
vid you were just
wearing Dickies and plain tees
…
I like the plain style, I always do: the white tee and normal pants is never going to look bad. It’s timeless, but I also feel that what I like about an outfit is that you can tell what kind of person the skater is a bit. It says something about someone I think. When I was living with Pekka we had this joke: ‘Who can be the most offensive?’ Like, ‘OK put these on and you’ll offend everybody.’
Like the bright neon yellow windbreaker?
I was just filming and I had on the neon shoes so I thought ‘why not?’ and I added the neon windbreaker. It wasn’t a super serious thing… Either way people are gonna hate or like it. It doesn’t matter…
Tailgrab, Berlin. Ph. Sam Ashley
Just fucking with people.
Yeah, I don’t think there’s anything bad about it. I think we are currently in a time when a lot of stuff is acceptable in skateboarding. Now anything goes in a way. In skateboarding people take shit so seriously and it’s funny. I’m over that.
It’s just a time in your life.
Yeah all these thing you’re gonna look back at them like, ‘ah this is funny’ but maybe I’m wrong actually, maybe in 15 years most likely not. But it’s cool that at one time you felt like that. You felt like putting those neon shoes on in the morning, that neon windbreaker…
Have you ever re-filmed a line because you didn’t like your outfit that day?
Ah yeah. It’s happened for sure. I don’t want to be over-picky about it, I just feel like the whole outfit thing is really funny… I mean when I go on trips people think I’m crazy.
Sam (Ashley) was saying you were changing outfits a lot.
I was wearing a neon sweater and when we got the one picture then it’s like you can’t wear that twice.
Backside 180 to frontside crooked grind, Oslo. Ph. Lars Gartå
Does this strict rule apply to filming or just photos?
For filming outfits will turn up twice, but it’s more for pictures… I like the aspect of it, like ‘what shoes is he wearing?’ if there’s a dope fisheye shot; it’s cool to see the details. I don’t want to sound too crazy about it, but yeah, I care about how I dress when I skate. I think all skateboarders do, but some of them pretend that they don’t. They’ll put paint on their trousers on purpose you know what I mean?
Yeah totally. Sam also said you’d sneak out to go clothes shopping mid-skate session. Is that true?
Not mid-session! But I did go on a little cruise in Edinburgh because I was running out of fits.
Ha ha…
I brought five fits on the trip, but then I was there for seven days… So I think I got a picture in all of them, but I didn’t land all the tricks… So I needed a new fit anyways. When I was on this trip some of the days I brought a bag so if I was feeling it I could try to get two pictures that day. I just don’t want to wear… One thing is when you’re wearing a white tee and jeans it doesn’t make any difference, but then if you’re wearing something wilder and it shows up two times it’s so much more noticeable. It’s like (Jason) Dill and his silver shoes and yellow socks/leggings…
You can’t rock that outfit again in two different places…
Maybe not too many times, ha ha ha.
Ollie, Oslo. Ph. Lars Gartå
OK so who are you riding for right now?
Right now I’m riding for… well I guess I’m flow; I don’t know what the deal is, but I ride for adidas shoes, Krooked boards, Thunder trucks and Spitfire wheels. Oh and German (Nieves) sends me Paterson gear sometimes.
Do you get paid from skateboarding or what do you do to pay the bills?
I’m not getting paid to skate so I recently I got a job at a suitcase company making these custom Peli cases. It’s a company that does the inserts for these cases but they also distribute the cases without the foam inserts. I work in production and do a bit of drawing, but some of the stuff we do suitcases for is so expensive… Like sonar gear for the oil industry and these things cost millions. Like crazy microphones that can pick up sounds miles away…
You must have to make those inserts pretty exact to fit that expensive equipment in!
Yeah, ha ha…
Nice. So what’s next?
I’m doing this
San Francisco trip
in September. I’m going to be out there for three weeks. I’m gonna try to hook up with the Deluxe guys and do a part for Thunder: some Oslo clips mixed with some SF stuff. I wanna try to get some clips on some of those OG SF spots; that’s kind of a dream for me. I wish Pier 7 was still good…
Maybe you’ll even run into Wu Welsh out there!
Ha ha, that would be sick! Another check on the bucket list… We’ll see what happens I guess.
Backside 180 nosegrind, Glasgow. Ph. Sam Ashley

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 14, 2017
Mikey Brunner – Colourgroup video part + Interview
Filmed and edited by Shqipron Bobaj.
Interview & Photography by Alan Maag
On the top bar on WhatsApp there’s the little circle with the picture. Click… It shows two heads: the smile of a stunningly beautiful young lady and a guy with a red cap doing somewhat of a funny face. The name on the bar says Michael Brunner. Doesn’t really fit. Michael Brunner is about as much a Swiss name as one can have. Like the guy standing with a bucket of milk next to his passively chewing cow, Matterhorn and the red white flag in the background and all. And on top of that the phone info says he’s from Kölliken in the Kanton Aargau. That’s basically the prototype of the no future village next to the freeway. Combine all this and you’re bound to imagine that 26-year-old Michael Brunner is probably a chubby gamer, hanging around the local gas station on the weekends, all into tuning his ten-year-old Subaru.
BUT! This Michael Brunner is more of a Mikey. A Mikey B. Mikey B – The fresh Prince from K-Town – half Swiss, half Madagascan. Hi-tech to deep down roots! Mountain peeks and Mama Africa – the best of both. Live and uncut! Sporting the freshness, hyping his homies. Feeling it. The kind of dude you’re just into when you see him skate. Sort of voodoo style, uncanny, yet on point. Catching those switch backside flips with the tweaky legs, if you know what I mean! The type of skater known as The Styler…
He skates with a crew based in Aarau, a town not far from Zurich and closely affiliated with the scene there. Colour Group, they call themselves, ‘cause they’re reppin’ quite a few nations. They’re Albanian, Brazilian, Korean, American, Italian, Serbian, Czech, Croatian, Swiss, and in this case, Madagascan. They drop one or two vids every year, produce their own clothing line and one of the few proper remaining skate shops has their back. It’s the positive, the tight, the light, which makes skateboarding so great, that they bring along. That ‘thing’ you can feel the fire in, the stuff you live off, the stories you’ll remember as the good old days. It’s the substance our culture is made of. And Mikey is a driving force within this positiveness.
So you can imagine how hyped he was when I wrote him back in November that
Free
would give us the chance to get something together… Since I must have deleted all the previous messages due to chronic storage problems it said:
Mikey,
Free Mag
wants to do an interview after all – now that it’s cold….
Whuat! Those bastards! Have you seen the temperatures?
We have the Wallride Hurricane and Switch K from Tokyo. And they like the Flip Wallride. Any other ideas?
Yeah, a bunch. Are you coming to the premiere of
Tell It Like It Is
this Saturday?
I’ll try. We can talk then.
Mikey Brunner, Japan, 2016. Ph. Alan Maag
Well, that was it until December 3rd. A month later, you can guess, it got cold and rainy. But on that halfway sunny December weekend I got to see another side of Mikey. On those winter days we had solo missions. Despite all his homies staying inside he was down to get something done and to sweat and freeze his toes off at the same time. And that’s the thing that separates the dedicated from the rest. To go out alone, temperatures just above zero, to get those tricks in, that’s something few skaters do. But it’s that little sign that one is willing to go the extra mile in life – the last 10%. If you have been shooting with so many skaters you get to learn that such behaviour is a sign of character, which will make those people successful throughout their lives. They get things done.
Otherwise the chat mainly consisted of temperature info and winter depressions. It kept on raining and with a few exceptions we didn’t get much time to try and shoot more. That was until March 3rd, when a deadline came in. We decided to go to his area. If you ever happen to be near Aarau, check it out. It’s a little city, which is perfect for a day trip, because there are around ten good spots all really close to each other in the city centre… Anyway, suddenly things went fast, especially since he hurt himself and had a few weeks out and also the question of what should be asked in an interview came up – which makes the insight into the chat a bit more interesting. Let’s check around the end of March.
Backside 180 kickflip, Zurich
Mikey, we have two weeks for a text, what do you want to talk about?
Mikey Brunner: Uh, I’m bad at that.
But you are an academic. You just did your Bachelor’s in Biology.
An academic who somehow snuck through all tests, yes, hahaha.
Are there interesting parts in your studies?
It depends on the results you get within the tasks. To show why they make sense is interesting, but bringing it all to paper, comparing data, etc. is tiresome.
Give us a positive example.
Studying how a cancer cell uses the mechanism of a human body to reproduce is quite heavy and super interesting.
You call that positive? Why? Is there good and bad cancer?
Well, actually all cancer is bad. We just call cancer that won’t spread into the whole body ‘good’, because it allows us to extract it where it is and if all cells are removed it should theoretically not come back. But if it’s ‘bad’ it has already begun to spread and reproduce and the cells will eventually end up in the bloodstream.
Wallride hurricane, Tokyo
So you want to do cancer research?
No, that was just an interesting example. I’d rather do something with animals.
Ah, the animal doctor who gets all the chicks.
Hehe. Evolution is fun, isn’t it? Scientific Marine research would be the heavy shit, but I’d have to go abroad for that. So I guess it will be Zoology. Animal behaviour is highly interesting.
Why don’t you want to go abroad?
My lady, my friends, my family… I can’t imagine leaving them behind! But let’s see… After my civil service I’ll go travelling for a few months. Maybe Japan again, that would be sick. Our trip there was so cool, but I haven’t seen anything of the countryside yet. Maybe I’ll get the taste of it when I discover something else for longer.
Is all your family from Madagascar?
No, just my mother. My dad is Swiss.
Wallie transfer, Aarau
Tell me about your mother.
She’s funny, loud, beautiful and kind. She’s working a lot, a smart-phone addict and she just discovered YouTube. And always on the phone with a headset, haha… She writes incomprehensible text messages and keeps on talking French with me and others although we don’t understand… Besides her work she has her projects in Mada’; building a house and a restaurant at the airport, where my relatives are working. She’s trying to help them wherever possible.
What is your relation to Madagascar?
I’ve been there a few times and have a good relation with my relatives. Unfortunately I don’t have as much contact as I wish because of the language barrier. I just speak the language a tiny bit. But I have to go back soon to visit my grandparents. There’s always a big feast and they slaughter a cow when we come!
Backside nosegrind tailgrab, Aarau
The country is stable, right?
Well, the president and his staff bathe in money, whereas the people really need help. But there’s no war. There are even a few skaters down there! They definitely have some special traditions too.
Do they have Voodoo?
They have their own beliefs. You should Google them! Like the burial tradition, which is a huge celebration of life. There is no mourning, but a party! They dance on the streets, brass bands are playing and they drink their Madagascan rum. Within a big clan easily 500 people can come together from all over the island to celebrate the meeting of the dead and the living. They touch the corpse to say goodbye. I must say it was a bit weird at first to say goodbye to my granddad in this way, but it was comforting after all.
Wow, seems like your family down there leaves an impression. Any other stories?
Haha, yeah, I remember when we were there last time my uncle was insisting in having one of my painkillers. I didn’t get why, ‘cause he seemed to be fine but I gave him one anyway…. Turned out that he believed it would make him immune to alcohol ‘cause he had seen me taking the pill. But our half Swiss bodies can absorb more… You can imagine how that mix of painkiller and a false assumption turned out, hahaha…
Backside tailslide/noseslide, Aarau
At this point the interview broke off again and it took us a few weeks before deadline pressure kicked in again. It was difficult to get back into such an interesting topic, so I decided to just roll things up from behind and see where it would take us. That was mid-April.
Mikey, we need to finish this! Who would you like to say thank you to?
Is the interview over?
No. But I don’t have a better question at the moment.
Thanks to my family, for allowing me to have such a carefree life and backing me in all my decisions. They have always had trust in me, supported my skateboarding in every case and gave me all the space I needed. Thank you. My lady is just as supportive and lets me skate as much as I want, haha. She’s such a wonderful person and always takes care of me. Then the whole CG crew for all the good times on and off a skateboard. For all the healthy laughs I had because of those guys. They are all so different from one another but miraculously form such a tight crew. I’ll have to mention Skipi (Shqipron Bobaj) especially. With his dedication and endless hours of filming he keeps on pushing and pushing us forward. We would be nowhere without him. And you, Alan, the most relaxed photographer with that great eye for the special details. I’m so happy that we did this together. Without your motivation it wouldn’t have turned out as good as it is now. I owe you a six-pack. Then Kölliken, the village I come from and the city of Aarau for being such wonderful places. Not to forget all my other friends who bring such joy into my life. And my sponsors: Huf Switzerland, Quasi Skateboards, John at Bridgecity Dist., Brütsch at Home Street Home Skateshop, the Colour Group and of course Chance GF for the friendly support from Japan. That’s about it.
Kickflip wallride, Aarau
And what are you thankful for?
Well, for being a healthy human being who has free will over how I can live my life and choose where I want to go to. I’m thankful for never having been forced to do something I did not want to do. I have always been supported and met so many wonderful people through skateboarding.
Are you ever unthankful?
Hmmm… I don’t think so. But maybe we take certain things just for granted. Like food or clothing, for which we should be more than thankful. I guess I don’t value everything as much as I should. The little things, you know. If you value the little things, life is more enjoyable.
Yeah, we tend to forget those ‘cause we’re all a little bit in love with ourselves, aren’t we?
I guess we are, yes. Especially with skating you have to be a tiny bit narcissistic. At least I’m that way. If I don’t feel my style, what I wear, then I don’t feel comfortable and can’t focus on skateboarding. You have to be a bit vain, because you can only show your skating to the world without having a problem if you’re happy with yourself.
Fromtside halfcab noseslide through the kink, Zurich
How do you mean that?
Well, you get filmed and pictures are taken of you, so you show your personality through skating. And everybody reflects on how they might look. Just like in art.
So you’d compare skateboarding to art: it can be regarded as beautiful and aesthetic without having the claim of being better then something else?
Absolutely. Every one of us considers how something could look, but regardless of who likes it and who doesn’t, you should just follow your own taste and vision.
So therefore competition is counterproductive?
Yes. To compare skateboarding is weird, no? Alone the question of who is better just can’t be answered if you ask me.
But people do it all the time. I’m sure you have certain aspects of skateboarding you don’t like.
Yes and no. Everybody should skate how he or she feels like. Me not liking skating contests ‘cause I don’t feel like I can show my way of skating there doesn’t mean that others shouldn’t go for the contest hype. Do you know what I mean? The last thing skateboarding should do is to constrain people. Everybody should drop what he wants to drop.
Yeah. Being modest allows us to understand that different façades mostly have positive backgrounds.
I always have to think how people would say that varial flips are wack. How sad is that? Who knows how crazy my varial flips would look like if I hadn’t listened to those morons as a kid!
Hahaha, that’s almost like religion; we are aaaaall soooo tolerant and spread love – as long as it’s not a fucking scooter kid.
Hahaha… Yes man, that’s it. We should be less hypocritical and skate more.
Switch crooks, Tokyo

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  November 5, 2015
Damned foolish thing in the Balkans
Gosha Konyshev, bs air on Sarajevo’s abandonned bobsled track. Photography by Alexex Lapin. Words by Kirill Korobkov.
Originally we were supposed to start our first Balkans trip from Sarajevo. Pretty much exactly the same time two years ago we were on the way to Bosnia and Herzegovina when we got stopped during the connection in Belgrade, Serbia. They didn’t let us onto the airplane to Sarajevo because we missed the paper voucher that was supposed to be an original letter of confirmation from the hotel that had been sent by normal email with a signature and stamp. We couldn’t believe that only two years ago someone needed such an old type of document as a necessity to enter the country that was supposed to be visa free for us. I guess it was meant to be that way.
We had an awesome time in Serbia that turned into true love for the whole Balkans region. For three years in a row now every November we go back to the southeastern Europe for the new countries, new and old friends, warm autumn days, cheap prices, good food and the best untouched spots of the continent. Here is our third Balkans tour with Gosha Konyshev, Yura Renov, Dima Rodionov, Dima Shatalov, Leo Lukin and Stas Provotorov. We went along the Western side from Bosnia and Herzegovina through Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia to Greece. This time we had along Russians only and the most photogenic spots out of all three Balkans trips combined.
Sarajevo is a really interesting mix of different ages. The outskirts are full of big dark looking inhabited apartment houses, which is typical for all ex-Socialist countries. Most of them still have bullet marks from the war that happened in the beginning of the nineties right after that collapse of Yugoslavia. The city centre has beautiful architectural heritage from the Austro-Hungarian Empire. The old city has a Turkish or even Middle Eastern look with small wooden pavilions, shisha bars, mosques and chaotic narrow streets. There are a few modern skyscrapers here and there. Also all around the city you can find Olympic venues from the 1984 Winter Games that definitely saw better days in the past.
Gosha, Konyshev drop in in Sarajevo.
Mountains surround Sarajevo and because of that, the city is pretty compact. They don’t really have big plazas or open spaces but also it means that everything you need is really close. This city might not have the nicest infrastructure for skateboarding but you can easily cruise around. Skateboarding isn’t a big thing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the local skate community has been doing it for around ten years. The guys showed us their favourite food spots, introduced us to the nicest types of Rakia (fruit brandy popular in the Balkans) and gave some useful spot tips.
Old Olympic venues and Yugoslavian monuments are a must visit for all the skaters coming to Sarajevo. The brutal looking stadiums with grey walls made of raw concrete still have some serious skate potential. One of those buildings might have the best natural mini-ramp you can ever find on the roof. Another outstanding spot is abandoned bobsleigh track, which is basically a security free narrow half-pipe than goes downhill through the forest for 1300 metres. All the turns have over-vert transition and that’s like the best amusement park a skater can think of. It’s really hard to do a real trick on the track but the feeling of just riding down that thing is unbelievable.
Sarajevo was a great starting point for our new Balkans adventure. It has everything we like about this region: sketchy taxi drivers, low prices, good vibes, interesting history to learn, fantastic spots and a bit of this venturesome feeling that most of the European countries tend to have lost the last couple decades. It is always fun to explore countries you don’t really know much about. It’s like going to university where your skateboard becomes your main guide.
Dima Rodionov, bs noseblunt.
I feel stupid to talk about it but the only two things we could think of regarding Albania before going there were Eniz Fazilov and the Albanian mafia. Since Eniz wasn’t with us we focused on the Albanian mafia. I feel sorry for the Albanians, but the image this country receives in the media, movies and modern culture is really criminal. Also we had never seen any skate photos or footage from Albania so we didn’t really know what to expect or what it would be like to be there. We arrived to Tirana around noon hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst.
I am going to disappoint you straight away. I got nothing crazy to tell you about our Albanian stay. The sketchiest thing that had happened to us was a giant ugly frog we saw in a public park on the first night. Tirana is a decent big city with typical ex-Socialist architecture. It reminded me some of the southern ex-Soviet cities in Central Asia or Caucasus. A few standing out details that I noticed were the record-breaking concentration of all types of old Mercedes Benz’s and the popularity of weightlifting among Albanian men. Pretty much every second car in Tirana is Mercedes Benz. And they watch weightlifting competitions every night on big screens like it is football or Formula One tournaments.
Dima Shatalov, 360 flip in Tirana, Albania.
One of the things you definitely can’t miss is a giant pyramid that was supposed to be mausoleum for long-term Albanian leader Enver Hoxha. After its completion it was turned into Hoxha’s museum and then later on it contained a nightclub. Then NATO had it as its base there during Kosovo War and now it is used as broadcasting centre by an Albanian TV channel. It is 28-metre tall surreal building with smooth banks from the bottom to the top, which everyone climbs these days.
We hoped it would be an amazing spot, but unfortunately the only skate-able option we found possible was flip tricks on the very bottom of the banks that would look stupid on such a giant structure. Still it was cool just to see such a weird building in real life. I hope Albanians will save it because despite the historical message it had this pyramid is just a really unique structure no other city has. By the way another crazy part of Enver Hoxha’s heritage is the bunkers all around the country. He believed that West would attack Albania and initiated the campaign of “bunkerisation” that resulted in the construction of 700,000 bunkers in every corner of the country. No war like this ever happened but you can still find most of those bunkers everywhere from the streets of the cities to fields, beaches and even in graveyards. We haven’t found a good one for skating but I am sure somewhere there should be few nice ones you can skate. Go for it and let us know.
Yura Renov, ollie in Tirana Albania
Montenegro might be the most beautiful name out of all European countries at least on my own list. Since we headed south from Sarajevo, Montenegro was our next goal. It was another new country for us. The scenery changed right after we crossed the border. Montenegro literally means “Black Mountain” and if you are over there you can really see why. The bus followed a trail along the magnificent mountain gorge with a river that had an unreal turquoise colour. We should have really enjoyed that moment, but each of us just tried to get the hottest cell phone photo through the windows of the moving bus. No surprise they all turned out to be absolutely useless at the end. Most of visitors coming to Montenegro go straight to the coast of the Adriatic Sea. For some reason we thought that there would be more spots in the capital and ended up in Podgorica. I think that might be the smallest capital we’ve ever
been too.
Ethnically people of Montenegro are close to Serbs. They are neighbours, the Montenegrin language is really similar to the Serbian language and Orthodox Christianity is the dominant form of religion for both countries. Also it was the last country out of Yugoslavia that parted with Serbia. Russia has always had special relations with Serbia and Montenegro due to our mutual cultural and ethnic roots so it felt a bit special for us to be there.
Right across the river from where we stayed there was a big abandoned sports complex. Some parts of it had been turned into a fitness club and people were still working, but all the main stadiums were not in use. Most of the windows were broken, there was trash and wild grass all over the territory and old graffiti on the walls and everything inside was broken too. The roof of the stadium was the shape of giant ramp and Alexey wanted one of us to skate on the top of the building. Since I don’t have a chance to get a skate photo too often (more like once in couple years) the crew nominated me. It was way harder to climb up that roof than actually skate it. After Gosha and I did few drops we were done and tried to leave the spot. Some random guy who had been watching us for around ten minutes shouted at us when we hopped the fence. He asked us to stop and wait for the police to come.
Kirill Korobkov, Roof Riding in Podgorica, Montenegro.
We didn’t really pay attention to his words and skated away towards Alexey who shot the photo from the other side of the river. The whole condition of the stadium was so poor that in our opinion there was nothing to care about. Imagine our surprise when police pulled us over 15 minutes later in a different hood. Half of our crew got arrested but half of us ran away and hid in the hostel. Thankfully our hostess who didn’t tell the police that we were inside. We were sure that this would not go too serious. We messaged our boys in the police station and they told us to go to the next spot where they probably would join us. We all got a phone number of the Russian consulate in Podgorica and did what our comrades had told us to do.
The next spot was actually a roof too. The sides of the building were banks and it was possible to jump off the roof into those banks. As soon as Yura Renov started trying to ollie security guards rushed in and arrested us too. It turned out that it was some kind of ministry or really important building where we couldn’t skate and film or even get up on the roof. They were super serious about it and there was no other solution than the police station. It didn’t come as a shock when they drove us to the same police department where our friends had been locked up for about an hour by that point. We couldn’t believe it went that far just because of skating some roofs with no damage. It was even stranger that the guy who called the police at the first spot was still there with some photos. We didn’t really know what to expect.
Only a few hours later we found out that the guy was one of the sports complex managers and he tried to accuse us of all the destruction that had happened to the stadium in the last decade. He had probably got some money to fix it, stole the money and tried to prove to the police that we broke the brand new roof that actually hadn’t had any maintenance for years. Luckily for us the police weren’t corrupt and let us go in few hours. Right after we left the police station we decided that on this trip we should skate as many roofs as possible.
Well that was our only full day in Podgorica and we spent most of it under the arrest in police. Things could’ve gone way worse though. We all were free after all; I got a photo on the roof and a good story to tell. We had nothing else to do but to celebrate another day of the trip. Tuesday night in Montenegro can be really fun. A couple guys we met by the bar gave us a proper party trip around their capital. The next afternoon the border guard recognised us. He already knew that there were skaters who had gotten arrested for skateboarding on the roofs. This is how fast news about us spread around Montenegro. After two previous visits to Macedonia we felt like it became our little home base at the Balkans. We got really got good friends over there. Every time we stay at the same Shanti hostel and we know Skopje almost as good as it was our home city as we have our own favourite food spots and bars. Macedonia hasn’t changed much over last two years. It is still somewhere in between old Yugoslavia past and some kind of new identity that they are trying to find through their history.
Gosha Konyshev, fs board in Veles, Macedonia.
Since we had covered pretty much all spots in Skopje during the previous stays this time we decided to check out a new Macedonian city. Veles seemed to be the best option. It’s a small city in central Macedonia around 50 kilometres away from Skopje. We saw some great looking spots from Veles on Facebook and decided to give it a try. It was absolutely right choice not only because we got a few more photos for the article but also we skated two more roof spots and successfully escaped from the police.
The same night we talked about all the places we skated this trip and honestly the line-up of spots we skated was off the hook. It wasn’t just about roofs or anything particular, but just the general view of those buildings, structures and constructions. I hope the photos for this article speak for themselves. Some trips you have one or two spots like that for the whole journey and the photographer gets lucky, but here we had all that epicness in every city. I strongly believe that skate-wise the Balkans is one of the most underrated regions on our continent and our trips are the best proof of this.
Dima Shatalov, fs flip in Veles, Macedonia.
We finished our tour in Thessaloniki, Greece. We didn’t really plan it that way but it was just easier to fly out of Greece than out of Macedonia. Most of us spent in Greece around three hours and that was right about the time for me to ruin my dream about the proper Greek salad. Instead of a real version of the world famous salad I got something that reminded me of salad bars at gas stations by the highway in the middle of nowhere. With disappointment in my stomach and satisfaction about the whole adventure we headed to the airport.
Alexey Lapin, Yura Renov and our filmer Pasha Kryukov stayed in Thessaloniki a few more days and even got couple flicks that will probably make it into this article too. They enjoyed all great Greek food and drinks we didn’t have and got inspired by the local hospitality. No surprise they started talking about a big Greek trip for next November as soon as they came back home. Should we go to Greece this autumn or keep it to the Balkans one more time? I would say Balkans again. We got two more countries we haven’t skated yet!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 28, 2022
Jante – 11:00
Video by Fritte Söderström (previous episodes
HERE
).
Photography by Fabien Ponsero
Words by Axel Lindquist
It is an opportunity and a favour to be in an odd place with like-minded people.
When you get to experience ‘new’ together, and like a child, new to the word, point to things and ask about what you see, without being smitten by expectations and considerations. And with questions you have the chance to gain insights.
Most of the time.
Axel Berggren, backside 180 kickflip, Gothenburg
During Jante’s trip to Gothenburg this summer we took a side-mission, drove an hour south down the Swedish coast towards Falkenberg. Since I wasn’t there myself I can only assume how it went, thankful for the predictability of friends.
The van exits the plains of Halland and rolls down to a place that most people would consider to be insignificant. Behind an old go-kart track, or maybe it was an old outdoor dance pavilion, we don’t remember, the spot looms up.
We don’t remember the surroundings because inside the van the mode is jaunty and avid. One of us is bustling back and forth between the armrest and the window, next to him another one is in such urgent need to take a leak that it tickles his gum; surprisingly envious of all the countries where you are not even allowed to drink alcohol. And as soon as the van stops a third one is ready to jump out to be the first one up on the concrete plateau.
Axel, Falkenberg, 2022. Ph. Fritte Söderström
But once there he has to recollect himself, even though we’ve known it the whole time; the snake run is filled with water and sludge.
In the backseat a forth one is still seated, hesitating - dissociative, unable to realise how mental prisons are a mockery to all those innocently impris-oned in real, barbed wired prisons around the world.
–
Don’t think too much
, a fifth one says.
To grow up is not more than to take the child inside you by the hand - and lead it forward. Everybody is a child, also. Realising that sometimes makes the world easier to relate to.
At a distance a man spotted a big white van taking the narrow road down to his plot of land. He can only assume it’s just another group of skateboard-enthusiasts, but considering the crimewave the radio has been warning about he has all the reasons to be hesitant.
Martin Sandberg, ollie over to nosebluntslide, Gothenburg
And even if it is skaters, you still never know which kind it is. It can be the druggy graffers that you can’t reason with or the sober old men who lack humility, or the lazy ones who just stand there throwing rocks into the water.
Either way he has all the right to show them off, he owns the land, as he has owned it a long time now, and will likely continue doing so.
Behind him the door to his house opens and his little angels show up. Well, they are not so little anymore, soon it will be them having to deal with the land, the concrete construction and all its odd issues.
The small life is crucial for the large experience, even though the opposite is more apparent. It’s when you’re cleaning and pottering about you create space and serenity for prayers, it’s when you’re grocery shopping you’re preparing sacred dinners.
We are all humans doomed to thirst but it’s when we’re drinking we acknowledge life.
Josef, Falkenberg, 2022. Ph. Fritte Söderström
We have long prepared for this trip. Equipped with a drain pump and buckets we are slowly but steadily emptying the snake run, one of Sweden’s oldest skateparks that’s still around. An absolutely iconic spot, which engages people from the other side of the world, now fighting to get the park protected and preserved, and with a documentary in the making.
Even though we drudge in the sun to the point where the sweat from our backs could refill the bowls again the spirit is still effervescent, and everybody stands impatiently in line to use the flamethrower we brought to dry out the old and roughened concrete.
One of the most bonkers (‘bewildering’ if you like) aspects of history is its fragility. Most things said and done are soon swallowed by the horizon of time. And just as this arousing insight starts to form into words by one of us, a half-sketchy family shows up, fronted by the father dressed in sweatpants and a slavish accent (all eventual preconceptions are on the reader). With his stiff posture and many small steps he looks sceptical in his whole approach.
Gustav Tønnesen, fakie kickflip, Gothenburg
The opportunity to be in an odd place with like-minded people is a favour, but to be at a place with odd-minded people is hard. It is always hard. And it’s not helping if you are trespassing their property.
With that being said we will not be kicked out. That won’t happen, we won’t have it. Not after all the time and money we invested to be here. Actually we consider ourselves to have a right to be here, we have an historical connection to the skatepark. It doesn’t matter if this family lives here, maybe always lived here, that they own the land and everything on it.
We are not violent, but it’s easy to become rudimentary, for the one fumbling for arguments it’s easy to turn to ignorance.
We can only offer, in lack of arguments, to be humble and courteous.
Axel Berggren, frontside boardslide, Malmö. Ph. Nils Svensson
When the man reaches the concrete construction he inspects the guys that arrived in the van. They seem to be working hard emptying out the pits. They are dirty, they are sweaty and loud, but not many of them have any tattoos and to his surprise he is met by music and smiles. They drop their tools and walk up to him to greet him, even though he kindly turns down a handshake.
Every religion preaches tolerance. At the end of the day we all just want to be sitting in the sun drinking something.
He doesn’t really have a good argument to kick these guys out. It’s not hard to be kind after all.
The man approaching greets us with sharp eyes and open questions about our visit, but without really seeming to care about what we are up to. If anything he seems a bit amused by it all, telling stories and answering questions. Maybe it’s because of his kids being present, lucky us that they are so young.
Eric Hedberg, nollie frontside 180 heelflip, Gothenburg
That’s it, we just got lucky, and we can’t take any of this for granted. Of course we understand that we’re really not allowed to be here. We just want to be here, but there are a lot of things in life that we want but for good reasons have to abstain from.
Just as we expect people to respect our homes, our property.
We treated the family as nice as possible, relieved that we didn’t have to leave. And they were nice to us as well; after all, it’s not hard to be kind.
At the end of the day we all just want to sit in the sunset sipping something.
Gustav Tønnesen, switch noseslide, Gothenburg
But what if we would not have taken a no?
What could we have expected from the man in that case?
How should you treat us many competent idiots populating this world?
The question is simple, as asked from a child, but the answer is infinitely complex.
All religions preach tolerance, but what do you do if tolerance is not an option?
(For more Jante pics click the gallery below)
View Gallery | 6 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 12, 2019
Cover Version: interview + gallery
Charlie Munro, switch 50-50 by Kurupt FM. Photo: Rafski. (click photos to enlarge + gallery at bottom of page)
One of skateboarding’s most renowned pastimes is, whether we like it or not, talking shit. ‘The editing is so bone in this!’ ‘Oh my Grizzly Grip!’ ‘Could he have filmed any further away?’ Thousands of WhatsApp groups throughout the world are filled with the constant chatter of critiques and criticisms of every piece of new skate content that comes out. But do these keyboard/smartphone warriors ever do anything about it? Do they themselves ever bring it? Well two guys who are actually putting their footage where their mouth is are veteran videographers Dan Magee and Kevin Parrott. As we speak they are putting the finishing touches on their new video
Cover Version
. No strangers to shit-talking themselves the big question is: Do these two guys in their forties still got it? With decades of filming under their belts and a myriad of videos between them can they still hold their own in a sea of skate releases primarily produced by those half their age? Well we’ll have to wait until premiere night to find out, but in the meantime we caught up with Kev, Dan and Korahn Gayle to find out more about London’s next full-length independent video.
-Will Harmon
Captions by Dan Magee & Kevin Parrott
Will Harmon:
So why did you decide to call the video Cover Version?
Korahn Gayle:
Because it’s Dan’s CV.
Dan Magee:
OK the legit answer is because it’s like another London video, filmed in London, which has been done a million times before.
Kevin Parrott:
And then also when we were talking about ideas we thought about iconic videos and what we liked about them. There are so many old skate videos that are amazing and you may remember a certain video from how that nollie heelflip was filmed. ‘If you’re going to do a nollie heelflip you need to do it like that,’ referencing an old Dan Wolfe video or something like that. So it’s kind of like a cover version of all the shit we like.
Dan:
OK that’s the PC answer. The snide answer is I said to couple of people ‘maybe it’ll be called Second Broadcast’ and they said: ‘you can’t call it Second Broadcast with those dudes.’
Arthur Derrien:
These are the people that were in
First Broadcast
?
Dan:
I’m not gonna name any names…
Kevin:
I was like, ‘maybe we should do Albion 2’ and everyone was like, ‘yes, yes, yes!’ And you (Dan) were like, ‘fuck no!’. The other thing as well is the initials are CV…
Harry was having a bit of a nightmare this day. Just life shit… So, to make himself feel better he chose a trick he claims he sucks at down a super thin double set. Because that extra stress is going to help, right? Turns out, he was right. Harry Lintell, frontside 180 kickflip. Photo: Rafski.
Dan:
After this video I’m out…
Korahn:
Nah Dan’s definitely trying to get back into the skate industry.
Kevin:
The comeback tour!
Dan:
I doubt I will get back into the skate game. Nah the joke is that it’s Kevin Parrott’s CV.
Kevin:
(to Dan) It’s your CV!
Will:
Ok so from what you said earlier will there be any homages in this video? Like certain tricks that are a tip of the hat to tricks past?
Kevin:
We did this thing really early on right… Dan was like, ‘send me six tricks that stand out and you really like… You know they don’t have to be the gnarliest tricks or the best filmed, but ones that stood out to you.’ Like in
Eastern Exposure 3
when Donny Barley does the ollie revert over the two banks then does a switch frontside flip on flat… It was things like that.
Dan:
Basically it was like, ‘What makes a video classic to someone of my generation? Not like kids who are into Instagram doing backflips wearing Kenzo jackets at Southbank.’ I literally just walked past someone doing that at SB.
Kevin:
Yeah what were those classic moments you remember not just because they were the heaviest trick.
Dan:
Right obviously it’s in vogue to represent a different era now in skating; everyone is pilfering from other eras, but I think there’s a way of representing that, that is not so obvious. I’d like to make a video that I’m happy with, that is based on stuff I’m stoked on in general not like because I was some millennial looking back and ‘ah that’s cool because Sony walkmans are cool’. I look back and think Real’s
Non-Fiction
was a good video.
Kevin:
We just want to reference stuff without making it an obvious bite.
Dan:
The main thing is, when it started and Kevin was filming Harry and Manny, when I looked at Harry I thought: ‘What’s his strengths?’ And when I think of him I think of someone from Real’s
Non-Fiction
or the Forties video or Ethan Fowler where they are doing basic tricks but you see them skating spots that I don’t recognise. SF was like EMB back then and then
Non-Fiction
came out and you’re seeing all these SF spots you don’t normally see or like Matt Field skating the other side of the Bay and I felt like Harry could kind of fit into that look. Or like Korahn, Drake Jones is sick and he kinda looks a bit like Drake Jones…
Sam actually filmed this one on Hi-8 with his mate. The footage hadn’t been used but the trick was so banging that we convinced him to sit on his clip and reshoot it for this project. Sam Murgatroyd, frontside bluntslide to fakie. Photo: Sam Ashley.
Korahn:
Yeah there’s been times where I’m like, ‘ah is this trick really good enough?’ and he’s (Dan) been like, ‘yeah but it’s just not about how good the trick is; it’s the vibe.’
Kevin:
That’s the Instagram generation, doing it for likes. Sometimes you just want something that feels good. Sometimes when you watch a clip in a video you can tell the skater, it might just be a long 5-0 on a ledge, but you can tell they felt good doing that, and that’s just amazing.
Dan:
Making a video like this is super different than making an 8-minute crew clip or like a standalone part in that everyone has to think about what the other people in the video are doing.
Will:
But surely these guys are going to be skating a lot of the same spots…
Dan:
It’s kind of good though, but you just gotta make sure they skate them in their own way.
Kevin:
That’s always the way… You get a new hot spot and everyone wants to film a line in the same direction. It’s better to hit the spot a bit differently.
Will:
Kev I know you were already filming Harry and Manny, but at what point did you two link up and decide you were going to make a video?
Kevin:
Well I made this edit with Harry and Manny called
Video Selek
and Dan was just doing paid for commercial work and all the skate stuff was pretty corporate.
Dan:
The only skate stuff I did was campaigns where you only had five days to shoot something, which is rad, it’s cool and you get to see good skaters, but it’s like you don’t get the reward of working on something with your full vision.
Kevin:
Yeah that’s what you said, you weren’t really out in the streets; you were kinda just painting someone else’s picture. So basically I just told Dan to come out on the sessions.
Charlie was asking Korahn if there are stretches you can do to help with pop the other day as he feels he has none. Weird. Charlie Munro, kickflip. Photo: Sam Ashley.
Dan:
We did the Jazz Square edit (
Duppy
). Basically I needed to relearn how to film. Well it’s not that, but HD cameras are shit if you don’t use them right or you don’t have the right one.
Will:
Yeah that’s another question we wanted to ask you guys about…
Dan:
Basically when HD came out it was the Panasonic that everyone used, like Ty Evans used it, and then everyone else got one and realised it’s fucking awful. But everyone loves that camera now because someone showed them how to use it in the right way. Basically HD cameras kept changing then all of a sudden after years I found one that is good.
Will:
So for the camera geeks out there can you tell us what camera it is?
Dan:
It’s just a Sony A7, but I wouldn’t recommend that camera to someone to just go out and pick up because it took me two years to figure out all the bits and bobs on it. It took awhile to figure out the best way for me personally to use it.
Kevin:
It’s not about the kit; it’s about how you’re using it and configuring it.
Dan:
Once I found a camera that I liked using personally, I had to teach myself how to film again.
Kevin:
OK so here’s the real geek part of it: so we put some rules into place. We did not use a tripod once during this whole video. It’s HD, and everyone that’s got an HD camera is like, ‘ah I got a slider, I got the gimbal, I got the dolly…’ none of that.
Will:
OK so no drones, no tripods, none of that…
Kevin:
Nothing against those things, but…
Dan:
The main rule was this: whatever we use, a kid would be able to buy off eBay second-hand.
Arthur:
That’s sick!
We’ve spent a lot of time at this spot. Partly because it is the same distance from Buddle’s girlfriend’s coffee shop and the pub Buddle used to work in. It got skated a couple of times too. Korahn Gayle, switch pop-shuv. Photo: Sam Ashley.
Kevin:
What we did to go further… So a VX, what it cost back when the VX1000 was the hot thing, like around when
Modus Operandi
came out, our rig had to be the same price. It had to be a similar price so essentially as accessible.
Dan:
I didn’t want to make a video that came out and only one per cent of the people can afford to shoot that video. Also I want to add that we filmed it 1080p, not 4K.
Kevin:
There was that Holy Stokes video and I filmed a bunch for that. That video is what it is, I’m not knocking it, but that whole way of filming just wasn’t me. And so after that all of this is like cleansing the palette.
Dan:
I’ll say this right, because it’s essentially a stills camera that shoots video; that shit can look awful and sound awful.
Will:
But you knew this so did you change the mics and whatnot?
Dan:
Yeah, it sounds like a VX.
Kevin:
We tried to figure out so much shit and just certain ways of filming. Even with the fisheye, it often looks boring and bland… I mean maybe this will come out and people won’t be into it, but we’re trying to make it look more like a skate video or something that skateboarders will be happy with rather than a lot of people get HD cameras and are thinking they’re the next film director with all the kit.
Manny had to open a door and take the run up from inside the security office to get this. On the third visit, he ran through the entire building to get that door open. We thought we’d be arrested so ran before we peeped the footage and photo. Manny Lopez, Smith grind. Ph. Alex Irvine
Dan:
Everything can be bought second-hand off eBay; everything can be carried around in a backpack.
Kevin:
There you go; that kind of sums it up.
Will:
OK Korahn what’s it been like filming with these two?
Korahn:
I’ll review them separately, ha ha.
Arthur:
Let’s start with the demon…
Korahn:
All in all it’s been really fun, but sometimes Dan can be actually the devil.
Dan:
Tell me why! Tell me why though!
Korahn:
He can be pretty toxic, nah it’s not that… It’s more like if someone puts in effort, tries something for five hours, the next day Dan
will tell you that you don’t give a shit about the video. That kind of thing… That happens all the time.
Arthur:
Is it motivational?
Dan:
It’s not motivational it’s more like if I tell a dude that, and they think I’m a cunt, but then they try to prove me wrong by backlipping this gnarly hubba then they’re gonna thank me for that later on. ‘Thank you for being a cunt to me, thank you!’
Conor Charleson, frontside feeble grind to fakie. Photo: Buddle.
Will:
All right, how did you guys decide who was going to be in the video? Kev I know you were already filming with Harry and Manny, but how did you get Korahn involved? Also were there people you wanted in it that aren’t?
Kevin:
You know what, we had a load of people who were just like, ‘oh you’re filming? Can we film something?’
Arthur:
So people approached you?
Kevin:
Yeah some people…
Korahn:
I didn’t do that!
Kevin:
Dan asked Korahn, some other people asked…
Korahn:
There have been a few people that we’ve been like, ‘this guy’s sick!’ But Dan’s like, ‘nah, nah fuck that guy,’ and then he’ll see them skate and go: ‘Oh shit, he’s not bad!’
Kevin:
Like (Charlie) Munro and Conor Charleson.
Korahn:
Probably Sam Murgatroyd as well, so many people…
Kevin:
And then also when anyone new wants to come out we’re like, ‘yeah come out!’ but we’re not going to chase them. We had a list and when we got Korahn in we thought it would be sick to get Kyle (Wilson) in it, Kyron (Davis) should be in it, Casper should be in it, (Nick) Jensen… But then we thought, ‘wait a minute, that’s Atlantic Drift.’ So we were like, ‘let’s just leave that alone, they have their own thing going.’
Korahn:
So many people in London have a crew that they’re doing shit with, that’s what it is.
Will:
OK Korahn, question for you: Kev and Dan live on opposite sides of London, who complains more about having to commute in to film?
Korahn:
Dan of course! You’re quite bad with it!
Dan:
Yeah well there’s not one spot where I live and all the spots are going to be out east or central. You know what I mean?
Kevin:
Do you know where we went yesterday? Wandsworth. It’s kinda by his house. You know how long it took me to get there? You know how long it took me to get back?
Yeah you don’t know because I didn’t go on about it for hours, ha ha…
(Everyone laughs)
Dan:
OK that’s one big trip for you yesterday, but that’s me every day I’ve been out to film.
This is the spot everyone decides they have a trick for, until they get there and refuse to drop in from the top. First spot of the day, coldest day of 2019. Charlie Munro, nollie heelflip. Photo: Sam Ashley.
Will:
You guys filmed the majority of footage in this video in London where everyone (except Harry) lives, was that a conscious decision? No trips abroad?
Dan:
I can’t speak for Kev, but for me the first videos I’ve made were made in London because that’s where I learned to make videos and London was fresh and it was amazing. Firstly I feel like this is the spiritual successor to
First Broadcast
in a way, on my side of things. So I kind of want to follow the same pattern I did for that one. Also there are budget restraints because we have zero money. Kev and I have literally pumped, well it’s just travel money, but it still comes to four grand a year in terms of travelling about and not working. And then all the videos since then like
Lost and Found
and
Make Friends
or whatever and even though I’m stoked on them, it’s still disappear in January to Mallorca and film X amount of footage in Spain blah blah blah and that’s good, but that’s not going to wash now, you know what I mean? Turn on the Element video and it’s all Barcelona and it’s getting killed. But I think most people will be stoked to see one thing mostly filmed in one city – especially London as well, because people see London all the time but they probably won’t have seen stuff filmed like this at spots…
Kevin:
The London thing is not entirely conscious because we’ve kind of gone beyond the suburbs as well. We did a northern trip and there are plans for a bit more as well, but it’s 90 per cent London. Dan brought up that winters are impossible and that maybe we should go somewhere and Manny was thinking about Malaga or something wherever it was, but I was the one that was like: ‘No, we can do it. We should just stay here.’
Dan:
Also there’s an element of this: you know Palace when they released their video it was all London, at it was cool, but they kind of did it like it’s all London but it’s Westminster road gap, it’s Southbank, it’s all major spots, which is cool for their type of vibe, but it would be good to be like, ‘let’s do all London with a mix of classic heritage spots and cutty stuff that people could be stoked on.’
Kevin:
If people see the video and then they hit me up, ‘Where’s this?’ I would be stoked to reply: ‘That’s London.’
Will:
From the sneak previews you’ve shown us, it looks like you’ve found a lot of new spots…
Harry filmed 80% of his part in the first four months of filming then moved to Manchester and it’s been a saga to pin him down ever since. Thankfully his talent on a skateboard makes up for that in the moments we can actually get a camera on him. Harry Lintell, crooked grind. Photo: Joe Buddle.
Dan:
That’s Kev really, I wasn’t the spot-seeker…
Kevin:
There are spots in this video that I found in the late-nineties but I never had someone who could skate them. It’s so much easier these days, but it’s not just seeing spots in other videos… There’s a BMX secret Insta account that I managed to get a hold of and they take these photos of spots with no giveaways as to where it is but we’ve managed to find a few of them. You can’t just be the guy in your car driving around, or just Street View, it’s got to be a mix of everything. And thank fuck for HD because you can read shop signs in the background. ‘Oh that’s where that is!’
Will:
Well it doesn’t seem like you guys have blown out these new spots on Insta…
Dan:
Well…
Will:
Have you had to police the crew?
Dan:
Mate, police the pedestrians! That is the gnarliest thing.
Kevin:
That’s new to me.
Will:
What is this?
Dan:
Like people film stuff on their phones and you literally have to go tell them to not put it on Instagram or tell them to stop filming stuff.
Will:
How does that go down?
Kevin:
It goes down pretty well. So you imagine right, some random guy films Korahn, whose got a good amount of followers, he’s recognisable, this guy could tag him in or even if he doesn’t tag him they’re gonna tag it somewhere stupid like ‘Southbank skatepark’ you know what I mean? People look at that location and they’re like all of a sudden ‘here’s Korahn doing this down this set of stairs.’
Dan:
People that are in the crew do stories and it kinda shows where we’re filming and it kinda gives the game away. If I was another filmer and I saw that I’d be like, ‘ah that spot’s good, let’s go!’
Will:
So you’ve had to tell the guys…
Dan:
Yeah. And this is one thing I hate; this is why no one gets sent anything. OK it’s one thing not to send any skater their footage; because I know from experience you don’t send a skater their footage because they send it round. And the other thing that blows my mind is the film off the back of the camera and then it gets sent around in the group chat of skaters. That’s mind-blowing. Because I’ve seen shit from people, Korahn…
Korahn:
Why you saying me?
Dan:
Because I’ve seen shit.
Korahn:
I haven’t done that in a long time.
One of our partners found this. They lived next to it growing up, and mentioned it could be good for skating. Turns out that in an area we have rinsed for years, she knew where a banging double set and hubba was. Manny Lopez, backside tailslide. Photo: Buddle.
Kevin:
The Blondey taxi driver clip everyone in London had seen for ages… So many people had it on their phones for two years before the video came out. That’s insane and that was the moment in the video that everyone was talking about and reposting. It kills the whole ‘oh they went there? They did that?’
Dan:
For me that’s why I’m kinda gnarly about this because it would be great to make a video that could hold up to the same standards as the full-lengths from back in the day. No one knew what was going to be in the Plan B video, no one knew what was coming out in any of these old World videos…
Kevin:
It can be done. I think it’s pretty cool you’re like that with the footage. Hopefully when this video comes out even for the skaters their footage will still remain fresh. I don’t watch a lot of the footage at home. I film it, send the high-res to Dan, but I don’t sit there and just keep watching it because we’re just trying to make sure it feels as fresh as possible. I mean is it worth blowing out the spot for like what, 130 likes?
Will:
Are there any stories of the crew controversially one-upping at spots?
Dan:
It’s something I will regulate on; I’ll weigh it up like is it worth taking out this dude to get that.
Arthur:
Oh so if someone else has done something not in your crew is it worth… Say like (Tom) Knox does a trick on a spot or a Jensen spot, you’d be like ‘it’s not worth doing a Smith grind just to do a trick at this spot…’
Dan:
Some people in the crew don’t have much imagination about spots. Some will see a picture of a spot and want to go do a similar trick, or like…
Kevin:
Some guys see a photo come out and go ‘someone did a wallride, I want to do a frontside wallride.’ And we’re like ‘no’. There are certain spots that certain people own. In the same way that I said earlier that if there’s a new spot and everybody wants to the same line in the same direction… Let’s say Tom Knox goes somewhere an films an epic line, I just don’t think you should go there and film a line on the exact same route. Find your own route.
Zach Riley, frontside hurricane. Photo: Rich West.
Dan:
We haven’t touched a thing that infringes on Jake’s (Jacob Harris) style of filmmaking
or his spots or anything like that. That’s the person I’m most sensitive about.
Will:
Why is that?
Dan:
Because Jake and I have always had a relationship as in we’ve worked together in the past, but also he’s probably the dude I respect the most for being a hard-working videographer and has his own ideas and has made the people he’s worked with look fucking amazing.
Will:
Indeed.
Dan:
I probably don’t need to film anything ever at Victoria benches because a) It’s Lucien’s spot and b) I’ve filmed a lot of stuff there before with other dudes. I don’t need to revisit that so now it’s like Lucien owns that spot.
Korahn:
No one’s going to do better than nollie front heel switch crook!
Kevin:
That’s exactly what happened, after the Palace video came out everyone was like, ‘it’s an OG spot we gotta go there!’ But I was like, ‘no. It’s a Lucien spot right now.’
Korahn:
He brought it back to life then killed it again!
Kevin:
Exactly. There’s a certain amount of that: respect other people.
Dan:
For instance there’s that handrail in Brixton that Chris Jones runs up the stairs… So we got tricks there, but I wouldn’t let Harry do a line where he runs up the stairs.
Korahn:
Yeah that’s just biting innit.
Kevin:
There are things we’re into, but we want to pay homage to them but not bite them; there’s a fine line. We are real careful about that.
Will:
You guys are both making the video together, how does that work? Who is doing the editing?
Dan:
Well I’ve been trying to get Kev more involved (with the editing) but he hasn’t really been so I’ve been doing a fair bit.
Kevin:
I’ve been filming all the time!
Dan:
No Kev’s going to do some more of the post work on this one. I hate doing slow-mos and cropping out stuff; Kev’s really good at that. I guess it’s gonna look a little bit like the same family as First Broadcast kind of thing so I’m coming up with the ideas and Kev’s gonna go out and shoot loads of b-roll stuff and I’ll edit it in last minute.
Kevin:
I feel like, as far as the video’s gonna look, it pulls from both of our back catalogues.
Dan:
We’re still bouncing off ideas.
Manny got nicknamed Screensaver because some days he just says nothing and is down to watch everyone else get their session on. If you can find the grimmest looking spot and come up with something horrible to try, that usually works to snap him out of it. Manny Lopez, 50-50. Photo: Sam Ashley.
Korahn:
One thing I found really funny was Dan testing you Kev, by sending you a song and seeing what you thought of it.
Kevin:
Oh my god yes! Ha ha… He (Dan) sent me a song and was like, ‘What do you think about this for the video?’ And then I sent a reply going: ‘It sounds like it’s newly recorded, trying to sound like a song from the seventies, it sounds like it’s trying to be something it’s not…
Will:
Bruno Mars, ha ha?
Kevin:
Something like that, so I said to Dan, ‘It’s kinda wack; I wouldn’t use it.’ And then he sent a reply going: ‘Test passed. It was Kris Vile’s song from an old Vans video. You passed by the skin of your teeth.’ Ha ha ha…
Will:
Korahn, what’s the meanest thing Dan has said about one of your outfits? Or what’s the meanest thing he’s said to you or the other guys?
Korahn:
He’s always calling me out, but most of the time it’s in jest. Or at least it’s not serious enough to where he’s telling me to change my clothes…
Dan:
It’s future-proofing!
Korahn:
OK fine, but let me just talk! It’s not that he has a say really, in what I wear. I wear what I want and if he wants to film me he can or not. Because of the Blueprint videos, well First Broadcast is probably my favourite video; I definitely respect what he’s saying. So, although he talks a lot of shit on me, I accept it, because I’m hoping that he’s going to come through. That and because he’s an old friend of mine that’s the only reason I deal with this shit really. ‘Cause there’s times when I want to punch him, hard, in the face, and he knows it. Recently it got to the point, and he didn’t even know I hated him; I hated him a month ago. I can’t remember what it was, just like five different things in a row and he was just saying the wackest stuff and to everyone in the group… I felt like I had to back Manny up or Charlie because they weren’t really saying anything back. Anyways it got to the point that I just listed six things that he said that are just super-wack and I was like, ‘fuck you Dan and your negativity!’ And he was like, ‘fuck you and your fake positivity.’ And then I was like, ‘cool bro,’ and then I just left every group chat I was in with him and I saw him out on the streets and he’s like, ‘can’t even look me in the face can ya? It got to the point that I had to say: ‘I don’t even want to do a trick for your video, so I’m gonna go out skating with Kev for his video. That’s how this is gonna work.’ Anyway, since then I had a dream in which I was hugging Dan and I woke up with a big smile on my face.
Photo: Buddle.
Dan:
Yeah… Freddy Krueger comin’ for ya!
Korahn:
And then that next day I saw him and we were friends again.
Will:
That’s a good story.
Korahn:
It was crazy; I literally woke up smiling,
Dan:
It’s not my video, it’s your video. What would I ever gain out of this? Nothing. It’s your video.
Kevin:
Just day-to-day enjoyment maybe?
Korahn:
It’s a team effort and Dan knows that when he’s in it, then he goes back to the drawing board, back to his little office or whatever, wank pad, and then he just starts being a troll on the internet and starts telling us all we’re wack. That’s what he does, but when he’s out and about he’s great.
Dan:
There’s no way because if you dissect the situation you might notice I never talk shit on Charlie (Munro).
Korahn:
Because he’ll bang you out.
Dan:
Yeah, that’s why.
(Everyone laughs)
Korahn:
This video, because we’ve all put in so much effort and just been a crew and had so much fun along the way I don’t think it fucking matters what people think of it. I generally don’t give a shit what people think of it.
Will:
It’s more about what you guys got out of it the whole time.
Kevin:
Yeah it’s been so much fun.
Dan:
It’s all the U’s innit: unique, underrated, unknown, underpaid. You know what I mean? That’s what’s good about it.
Carlos came into the picture as he is Harry’s mate who moved to London. Harry then bounced from London to travel all over. After six months of skating with the crew, Carlos was still asking where Harry was. His English was way better by this point so we finally knew what he was asking. Carlos Cardeñosa, kickflip front crook to fakie. Photo: Buddle.
Arthur:
I want to ask about the
@_blips_
Instagram, what’s the motive behind making it so snide? Makes you seem a bit desperate for attention.
Dan:
The whole thing is, so many people talked shit when I first started filming. ‘Why you filming Manny? Why you filming with Kev?’
Kevin:
We spoke about this, everyone has their little WhatsApp group and they talk shit or they praise. On every video clip that comes out everyone judges it and so that was part of it… So when those things come out we’d send around (on the WhatsApp chat) these jokey memes and then finally we were like, ‘fuck it, let’s run it.’ Everyone talks shit, everyone has an opinion and we didn’t wanna make a very sanitised Insta account.
Arthur:
Why was the post about what Kevin Coakley said taken down then? (Editor’s note: The deleted Blips Instagram post being referred to here was from August 2018. It said: [Trivia] In 2017, which of the following told Kevin Coakley: “Magee films the worst dudes now”? There were a dozen names listed as well.)
Dan:
I took it down recently, because when I put the Cover Version ad that joins up, the nine posts, when I first did it I couldn’t get it to match up so I was like, ‘fuck I need to delete something,’ so I just decided to delete that because it doesn’t make any sense now. It wasn’t because it was snide…
Arthur:
OK…
Kevin:
So that whole thing is a homage to shit that was good when we were younger. When you open up Big Brother and there’s an ad for Bitch Skateboards with the Girl logo you’re like, ‘what?!’ But there are two things with those; this is what you were thinking straight away: who said this? Because the whole time we were like, ‘it’s only funny if you follow it through right? It’s only funny if you’re completely honest.’ And we all kind of kicked off at Dan because he replied and said it was him and then he said it was (Alex) Decuhna’s dad…
Korahn:
No no, he said it was himself, which is total bullshit.
Arthur:
At least commit to it….
Dan:
I actually didn’t know who it was…
Arthur:
You genuinely didn’t know who it was?
Dan:
Coakley told me, but he wouldn’t tell me who it was, but I knew it had to be Jake (Harris), Sylvain (Tognelli) or Casper (Brooker), those three people, but I didn’t know who it was. Then when I put it up Sylvain rang me up like, ‘ah, I told you it was me!’ Like, ‘no I didn’t know it was you.’ He told me afterwards.
Korahn:
Then why did you say you said it was you?
Dan:
Because I didn’t know at that stage…
Kevin:
Then you should have said ‘one of these three, we’re not sure who,’ it’s a total bailout thing to do. You have to own it.
Arthur:
Ok after this whole conversation the main thing I’m struggling to understand is why you do this Dan? What are you actually getting out of this?
Photo: Buddle.
Will:
Yeah what do you want the outcome to be?
Dan:
I’m 44, he’s a 40-year-old dad, it’s kind of like a) If two forty year-old dudes can do it and one’s got a kid, with jobs or whatever, if we can do it and make this video with no budget then maybe someone else can do it after we’re done and make a fucking amazing one. Please by all means, make your video, well it’s kinda half-snide half like I do want someone to do it a) and b) If you want to top this, please fucking do because I want to see that video. I really want to see that video because it’s been a mission.
Will:
What about you Kev?
Kevin:
I just really like making skate videos. I just like it.
Korahn:
That’s a huge fucking part of it.
Dan:
I do too… I have fun. OK here’s my perfect day… Crew chat the night before, we plan a mission for tomorrow, everyone for some reason is like ‘yeah let’s do this…’ Wake up the next day, we go to the spot, and preferably we’d drive so I don’t have to carry my camera bag. We’ll meet Kev and most of the crew, myself in cars with (Joe) Buddle, who’s fun as fuck to hang around with. We’ll go and get the trick that we specifically went to get, we might get something else, then we’ll go to Wetherspoons and get loads of stuff sent to our table free on Instagram, then we’ll go back and talk on the group chat about how good it was that day. I’ll log the footage then send him (Kev) a preview and that is like the stoker.
Korahn:
And then the next morning Dan will tell everyone that they’re not trying to do anything for the video and they’re not taking it seriously.
(Everyone laughs)
Dan:
But honestly you don’t get that reward every day. I’m trying to think of a good day like that…
Arthur The day you cried surely?
Korahn:
Yes, the Manny back lip!
Manny’s the only person I’ve ever seen do this: you’re at the bottom of some hubba; he’s trying a trick. Then as you’re waiting down there you hear: ‘Look I’m trying a really gnarly trick right now; I can’t have this conversation!’ Are you fucking kidding me? If I’m the skater I’m not even picking up the phone, let alone to my girlfriend. Manny Lopez, backside lipslide. Ph. Sam Ashley
Dan:
I cried when Manny did the back lip because in all my years of watching people ride this ridiculous fucking toy, that was like the most
Rocky
moment I’ve ever seen.
Kevin:
That was gnarly.
Dan:
That day Manny really fucking tried… He tried, we went there and we got kicked out…
Kevin:
Yeah like three times.
Dan:
He literally took his ankle off and I didn’t think he was gonna try it any more and he did it on his last go.
Kevin:
He could barely ollie on flat then there was a load of people there and there was a 10-minute break and he just wanted one last go. And like the ollie he did on flat it looked like a child’s first ollie. It was gnarly. We thought there was no way he was gonna make it.
Korahn:
He tried an ollie and landed and was like ‘uhhh’ and Manny was basically about to cry and then he caught mine and Kev’s eyes like, ‘I feel like crying…’ and then didn’t cry. We were like, ‘dude if you’re gonna go for it, you’ve got to land it. Because if you don’t you’re fucked mate.’ And then he just did it.
Dan:
It was one of the gnarliest things I’ve ever seen.
Click below for a gallery of Cover Version photos
View Gallery | 16 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 6, 2020
Jacky Biarritz
Growing up in Lyon, the cluster of beach towns known as French California was not ‘cool’. My friends and I were convinced the main one, Biarritz, was solely inhabited by sales reps; the kind that wore purple board shorts, extra medium t-shirts and sunglasses indoors. The sort of guys that would tell you to ‘keep training and maybe one day you’ll get on Billabong’. By extension we hated surfing, surfers and the fact it had the highest concentration of them in the country. We didn’t understand why the ‘board sports’ industry was based in a city with no spots and resented the fact that skateboarding was even lumped in with the rest of that crap in the first place.
Fast forward to today: I’m jealous of all my mates that can surf and this is the intro to an article about Biarritz’s flourishing skate scene. Oh and wait a second… Quim Cardona? Wes Kremer? The Billabong team was actually fucking sick!
The irony of all this is that as much as 13-year-old me would hate to admit it, surfing is in fact probably what has led to their skate scene becoming so interesting. It’s what initially attracted such a random assortment of incredible skateboarders to the city, and in many cases it’s half the reason they became friends once they got there.
So, without further ado, here’s an interview with Phil Zwijsen about making the first all Biarritz video since we can remember. It features amongst others Lucas Puig, Sammy Mould, Sam Partaix, Vincent Milou and Jérémie Plisson: a train driver that likes to grind 20+ stair hubbas on the weekend. It got us pretty jealous of how they’re living over there…
Lucas Puig, backside 180 kickflip
Photography by Clement Le Gall
Interview by Arthur Derien
Before we start chatting about Biarritz can you give me some quick background about Jacky? When and why did you start filming these videos? What does the name come from?
Phil Zwijsen: Jacky started about five and a half years ago. I’d already been filming a bit before but I guess that’s when I got hurt, bought a VX and decided to get serious about filming. ‘Serious’ ha ha. Maybe that’s not the right word since I’m just doing it for fun when I can’t skate, but you know what I mean… Anyway it started with me just filming Jarne. Since he always films loads of stuff in a day he’s really fun to film; that’s what got me into it… And then yeah it evolved into me filming all of my friends, I did a few videos and that’s where we’re at today. Oh and the name Jacky is just what we’d call Jarne when he’d be really drunk and I guess it stuck.
Why do you think so many skaters are moving to Biarritz these days?
I mean you have nature everywhere, you can be in the mountains super fast and Spain is like 25 minutes from my house…
I think people also come here because there’s a lot to do in the winters. Well that’s not true it’s actually pretty dead, but there’s surfing. Winter is the best time to surf and I think a lot of skaters did kind of move here for that… Plus you can usually skate all year round. There’s loads of skateparks now… I dunno it’s a good place for being outside and moving your body.
Uryann Raudet, ollie over to ride down the stairs
Yeah I was going to say, it really seems like you guys have quite a healthy lifestyle over there… Is it actually like surf in the mornings and then skate in the afternoons or is that too gnarly?
I mean some of the younger guys that grew up here don’t surf but all of us older guys, especially the ones that moved here, we surf a lot. And yeah when we can we try to do both in a day, especially Sam (Partaix), Lucas (Puig) and Clement (Le Gall). Don’t get me wrong if you don’t want it to be healthy it doesn’t have to be, you can easily party every night, but most of us moved here because we enjoy being outside and not doing that when we come back from trips, so it’s perfect. And surfing means you just can’t get really fucked up in the evening, as you have to get up early, so it really changes things… And the best thing about it is that even if it rains you can still surf, so there can still be something to look forward to the next day. That’s why I enjoy being here a lot more than Belgium.
Sam Partaix, frontside air
What motivates you to keep making these videos then? It seems like you could have loads of fun even without doing them.
I don’t really know… Like for this Biarritz one it’s not even like I’m doing this to help the people in the video or anything. Most of the guys I film either don’t need any help or are like Sammy (Mould) and don’t care about being sponsored or anything. I mean Sammy has been getting Element boards since we started this and I guess Lucas gives some of the younger guys boards every now and then. When people need shoes I’ll help out… But that’s not why anyone does it.
I guess it’s just fun for them, fun for me… And it’s not like I’m going to get paid in any way for doing this, it’s just a cool thing to do for the scene. It’s brought all the skateboarders a lot closer; I feel like we all know each other really well now.
The problem is that officially skateboarding is illegal in the whole city, so it’s not always easy. And it doesn’t help that the city is full of older rich people, we get a lot of complaints about the noise… We’re used to getting shouted at a lot ha ha.
Robin Bolian, kickflip over the rail
Why contain this project to a small city like Biarritz then?
Mainly because I can’t really skate or walk very far because I’m hurt. Since Biarritz is small and I have a scooter it makes it much easier that way. The longest you’d have to walk if you were to cross the whole city is like 30 minutes, which means that people can just rock up after work or at any point in the day and be part of the session. We’re always posting photos of where we are in the group chat and anyone can invite anyone they want to it… That’s one thing I’ve really been enjoying about this; it’s super open. On Sunday it was like 30 of us out skating!
Also the fact that I’ve been strict about it only being Biarritz means that we’ve ended up skating a lot of really shit spots and that’s really fun. It’s forced everyone to get extra creative. Sammy especially, he skates shit that nobody else is going to want to skate and then does some fucked up shit. That’s what I like watching and kind of what I want to do with my own skating.
Antoine Ravel, noseslide
Yeah looking at the footage you sent me the spots look just as shit as in Belgium ha ha. Only there’s always a beautiful beach and the sea somewhere in the corner of the screen…
It’s gotten to the point now where we almost enjoy that there’s nothing to skate and that we have to figure a way to get stuff on what we have. Even Lucas man, some spots I’m like, ‘he’s not going skate this…’ But then he does something sick. I used to surf with him more than I’d skate with him and I honestly didn’t think he was still as motivated to skate as he is. Sometimes he’ll message me out of the blue like ‘hey I’m free for two hours, want to quickly try to film something?’ Every time me an Jarne go skating with him we’re still like ‘Fuck… It’s Lucas Puig from the Lakai video!’ ha ha. And you know when someone is so good you don’t even need to skate, you can just watch and be happy? That’s how he is: it’s perfect for me. Plus he’s like the most normal guy ever! Like the first couple of times I was filming him I was stressing because I really didn’t want to fuck up the footage and he was like ‘yo relax, you’re not a professional filmer, we’re just doing this for fun. It doesn’t matter if you fuck it up’. And that’s honestly what I like the most about this project, there’s no attitude: if Lucas is doing a switch flip back noseblunt on the ledge and someone else after that wants to film a backsmith on it, it’s all good! We’re all going to be encouraging him just the same, even Lucas. I haven’t skated in over seven months now and honestly this has been so good for me…
That being said I don’t think I’d ever want to become a real filmer, like one that goes on random trips where half of the dudes on the trip I don’t get along with. I like doing this because these guys are fun to film and to be around with. You know how in the footage of Jérémie’s back 50-50 on the hubba you can just see Lucas screaming and going crazy to encourage him? I love filming when sessions are like that.
Jérémie Plisson, backside 50-50
Tell me a bit about the crew you’ve been filming then?
I’ve already spoken about Sammy a bit but he’s basically been the highlight of the video for me. I’d never really heard of him and he’s the just best dude, takes the gnarliest slams, never complains… And every time he’s out he fucking tries you know?
Then there’s Jérémie Plisson, he’s one of the few that has actually been here in Biarritz forever and honestly, he’s kind of an inspiration to me. He’s my age, works full time as a train driver and when he skates he doesn’t give a fuck; he just goes for it. The day of that kickflip over the big blocks he’d been at a different spot for two hours while someone else was trying a trick, it was freezing, getting dark and as we were about to leave he was like: ‘Still want to go to those blocks?’ He’s 33 man! I love that shit. Him and Sammy are the best for that, just so down to go filming even though they’ve been at work all day.
Then Jarne can’t skate but he’s been coming every day, there’s this guy Rafa Corts from Madrid who’s really sick, Sam Partaix has been coming out a bit, Robin does two tricks every time he comes, Matt Debauché, Anto Forot and Uryann Raudet, Vincent Milou, I mentioned Lucas earlier… But also as I said there isn’t really a crew. The crew is literally anyone who wants to skate! I’ve added some of the younger kids to the group chat as well but they haven’t come out yet.
Sammy Mould, wallride nollie out
I bet that group chat is hectic.
Yeah but I regulate it man, when people are like, ‘hey want to go surfing?’ or ‘want to go to the skatepark?’ I tell them I don’t want to see any of it in this chat: this is strictly street skateboarding ha ha.
It’s been really useful to get people motivated, especially since I always put the clips we film in the chat after the session. It gets people really hyped to get more clips as they see it turning into something good. And Sammy has so many good slams after every session that it gets people on it; it gets everyone thinking ‘fuck, I really need to go for it!’
Lucas Puig, switch flip backside noseblunt
You making this has sort of coincided with Wall Street opening up a shop there. How’s that been for the scene?
Ah man Emilie opening that shop has been amazing; it’s always the meet up point and everyday there’s always a million kids chilling in there… It’s small but she’s really made it work. Like it’s constantly full of children ha ha. It reminds me of being younger and hanging out in Lockwood all day… It’s so sick! I think it’s the first proper skate shop they’ve had, like every other one before that always had some surfing or whatever in it as well. It really feels like a good time to be in Biarritz.
Vincent Milou, kickflip
Click below for more Jacky Biarritz photos from Clement Le Gall
View Gallery | 10 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  November 9, 2016
Inside Man: Gustav Eden
Ever wondered why Malmö, a city of just over 150 km2 has more good skateparks than say a city like London that’s almost ten times its size? Why it’s the only city in the world to have a school that’s run by skateboarders, in a skatepark? Why this tiny Swedish city was picked by Vans to host the finals of the world championships of bowl skating? Well it’s because of the very special relationship the local skateboarders have managed to establish with their council. How did they build such a strong rapport of trust with the council? And how on earth did they then convince them to use taxpayer’s money to turn their city into a skateboarding mecca?
We recently sat down with Gustav Eden, official Skateboarding Coordinator for The City of Malmö (and all around legend) who provided use with some very insightful answers.
Interview by Arthur Derrien. Photos by Leo Sharp (unless stated).
Can you start by defining your role and explaining to us what you are responsible for?
Gustav Eden:
OK but I’ll start with some background and I’ll try not to be too long winded. The city has been engaging with the skaters of Malmö for the past 20 years or more and the skaters learned early on to get organised. They started different clubs that eventually ended up being Bryggeriet (the main skate organisation that runs the indoor park) and from that organisation they also ended up pitching to the city to build a big concrete park and that was Stapelbäddsparken.
At that point the city had some rather inspired leadership that saw an opportunity here and approved the project. Stapelbäddsparken was built and at that time was one of the main new big concrete parks in Europe, so the Quiksilver Bowl Riders comp ended up moving to Malmö. The city chose to put a bit of funding into the event and that funding ended up repeating itself. If you manage to get money from them once, it’s easier to get it again. Especially if they see that it’s actually being used properly.
The following year when Quiksilver pulled out, the funding had already been approved, so my predecessor (Erik Löfvander) said: ‘hey well we’ve learnt now how to do this on our own.’ And the skaters were like: ‘yeah we can do it,’ so the city forged a formal partnership with the skaters to do Ultra Bowl. It was a success so they kept it growing and eight years later the city’s funding and the partnership had grown to the point where the skating didn’t just involve the big event, it also involved several smaller events. The relationship with the city had grown stronger and we were influencing how the city was being formed in a new way. Then I stepped in two years ago, right as the  was being reorganised and during that reorganisation they assigned me the role of official Skateboarding Coordinator.
OK…
So now my job is to use the Malmö taxpayer’s money to help grow skateboarding and promote Malmö as a city.
Did your role at the skate school have any influence in you getting that job?
Yeah so…
Wait actually before you launch into that can you explain how the skate park’s association evolved into a school?
Absolutely. So one main step in the growth of the skatepark – and this shows the drive and the vision of the skaters – was that they were given this massive space in an old factory with all these offices upstairs that the council was starting to use for different courses (university courses and stuff). At that point the skaters already knew that it was possible to force schools to have skateboarding on the curriculum as a line of sports education. So they thought: ‘hey let’s do it the other way around’. Rather than a school starting a skate class let the skate organisation start the school, because there’s a system in Sweden where you can have what’s known as a ‘free school’ where you can start a school and then get the government funding if people apply for it.
The skate organisation is a not for profit, so all the money that goes into the school goes back to the school or the skatepark so they help sustain each other. The idea was to have a school where your passion for skateboarding can help drive your pursuit of knowledge. If you’re a skateboarder and you have an interest in say, photography, film, fashion or business then you can tap into that knowledge and what you know about these things within skateboarding can then translate outside of it. Easy example: you can learn film by filming skateboarding but then use that skill for other stuff. The idea is essentially to let a passion drive knowledge, or the pursuit of an education. Which is easier said than done because in the end school is school…
Does it seem to be working though?
Yes I’d say it is. The surveys that check which schools are most popular from the student’s perspective showed Bryggeriet at the top in Malmö for a few years in a row.
Yeah that’s amazing.
It’s also cool ‘cause we now have had students coming from all over Scandinavia – especially Norway and Denmark. Which means that every year the graduates have friends in Denmark and Norway, who they can then visit and travel with. The school then becomes this network that solidifies the whole next generation of Scandinavian skateboarding.
Gustav with a switch 360 flip on one of the skatable sculptures he helped install in the city.
Have you guys tried expanding this to other countries?
Well the partnership between Bryggeriet and the city of Malmö is a testament to two things. One is that the city is willing to say ‘yes’. But crucially – and this one’s the one that the skaters need to hear – is that the skaters have been a good partner to the city. They’ve been organised. Every time they’ve had a chance, they’ve delivered on it, and delivered more than they’ve been expected to and then they’ve come with the next suggestions saying: ‘hey what about if we do this?’ They’ve proven to the city that they’re a reliable group to put money towards. They can handle the money and they can make sure the events are good for the general public, because you have to remember that the main audience is the general public – not just the skaters. We want to make the events good for skaters to show the real face of skateboarding, but the main audience is still the general public.
If we don’t do good events that everyone likes, while still showing that skateboarding is something positive, then why should the government fund us? That’s something skaters should keep in mind. It’s easy to complain about how the councils don’t listen and so on – and sometimes it’s true but it’s also crucial to remember that if that is the case then you’ve got to make their job as easy as possible… Once you’ve proven that you’re trustworthy then they’re more likely to give you a bit more freedom. I don’t mean to put it all at the skaters’ feet, but I think it’s important to remember the city’s perspective.
Yeah, yeah. It’s good to put it into context because skaters tend to think it’s unattainable, like: ‘these people, they will never listen to us…’
Generally as soon as you start thinking of the council as an opponent, then that’s what’s going to happen.
Deep down they are kind of after the same thing as you, which is getting people outdoors enjoying themselves.
Yeah. It’s important to realise that you pay tax and there’s a department at the council that uses that money for the benefit of the citizens. If you can prove to them that it’s gonna benefit everybody, not just a small group of people, they’ll be likely to help you. If you go about it in a ‘hey we deserve this’ way you’re going to be creating an uphill struggle for yourself.
Can you tell us a little bit about this event (The Vans Park Series finals)? It’s essentially the world championships of bowl skating. Having that in Malmö is incredible.
Yeah it’s a massive deal. At the same time when it comes to doing these kinds of contests in Europe, Malmö has a good track record – especially in bowl/park skating. John Magnusson and Bryggeriet guys have a really good relationship with all the riders and the council supports the events massively.
What sort of led to it is that we contacted Vans last year to sort of pitch like: ‘hey we’re doing this and you guys are in the same kind of field, you’ve supported Vert Attack, you know we’re down to do something if you are,’ and I think Neal Hendrix spoke to the guys a little bit at Vans and I think they were planning the Van Doren Invitational and were looking to expand it to Europe. So we were already on the list, quite high on the list because we had proven that we were reliable partners.
Kalle Berglind (from
Bryggeriet Skate School)
, backside air at the permanent skatepark built in Malmö for the Vans Park Series finals.
So it actually started out as an extension of Van Doren Invitational?
Yeah then Vans and the Park Series guys had a vision to do this global competition series with a world championship and they got back to us about being one of the qualifying comps. We were down with that and discussed hiring an arena and building a temporary park, selling tickets and all that sort of stuff. But for us that’s not really our style.
You guys want permanent skateparks.
Exactly. We work to further skateboarding in Malmö permanently. Plus since we work for the Streets and Parks Department it’s easier for us to move quickly on this stuff. So we managed to find this space in Hyllie that’s going to be redeveloped next year. All the legal work had already been done for it and it actually said that it was an ‘activity space’, so we could pitch back and say: ‘hey, I know you guys want to build a park but we actually have the option to make it permanent, how does that sit with you?’ Vans were obviously, like: ‘wow isn’t that going to be really expensive?’ and we went through the numbers and got the Bryggeriet crew who design and build skate parks do it for as cheap as possible. So when we got back to them with the numbers Vans were taken aback! Being in Europe also worked to our advantage as (Vans) want to show that they’re all over the world, and not just in the US.
Yeah.
And also the fact that we wanted a women’s comp – we insisted on a women’s comp essentially – because all the events we do we want women to be exposed as much as they possibly can because it doesn’t make sense that there’s not as many girls as guys skating. It’s just because people haven’t been willing to invest in it. And we can, so we do. Also originally the final had been planned for Chicago!
Did the city of Malmö actually put money into it as well?
Yeah so we (Malmö) put the budget that would normally be allocated to Ultra Bowl into this. In fact it was actually even an extended budget because it’s the ‘World Championships’. So, that’s how we got to this event.
Then there’s also the whole story of all the street spots you’ve helped develop.
Yeah. My colleagues at the Streets and Parks Department are like the landscape architects, road builders, the tree planters… So it’s quite easy just by being in the same building to have informal dialogue about what can be done. Like ‘hey if you have a space where you think you want activity or you think people might want to skate, let’s look at it, so that we can promote skating in the spaces where it’s good and avoid negative design in the others,’ like skate-stoppers and so on – because that’s just sending the wrong message. We want to send the message that Malmö is for skating – by skaters in collaboration with the city.
And there’s also another strategy where we look at spaces that could potentially be skate spots but they lack some functionality, and then we add that. So we’ve added granite blocks and granite benches to squares that could use the life that skateboarding brings. By doing that we create these sort of meet-up hubs and social spots that really help unite neighbourhoods and give kids somewhere to go. That’s a massive resource. There’s no youth clubs like that; there’s no central skateparks that are like that. You need a free space where you can do stuff – like a functional free space.
A space where you can actually encounter people getting on with their lives rather than being isolated in a ‘skatepark’, where you don’t see the public.
Exactly. I guess I really believe in skateboarding. Wow, can you have violins in print? (Laughs)
Care to share your views on skateboarding being in the Olympics?
There’s danger in it for sure. If that very formatted approach to skating is what everyone sees then you’re at risk of it becoming that. We don’t want that to become the language of skateboarding. The challenge for everyone, especially those who talk about selling out and so on, is to show to the rest of the world that skateboarding is other things as well.
Like CPH Open.
Yeah like everything. Like if you’re an independent board company talking shit about people selling out and Nike funding the Olympics, then make a video that’s good enough for everyone to want to see and make sure that it portrays skateboarding how you want. And then if people see that then they will have a different image of it and unless the rest of skating does that…
So everyone has a little bit of responsibility?
Yeah everyone is responsible for how we communicate skateboarding. Just because other people are more moneyed doesn’t alleviate you from the responsibility. If you want change, you have to be part of doing it. You can’t just say: ‘oh they won now, because they got the Olympics and all the money went that way.’ You have to be like: ‘OK so we’re gonna have to fight for a voice.’ We’re gonna have to show that there’s other things to say. And I think in the end, the reason the Olympics needs skateboarding is that… It’s becoming very attractive and the traditional sports are… Well the people who are sort of stooped in that formula are growing older.
I think with what skateboarding has, that it’s more than a traditional sport. However, any shape that you put on skateboarding; any contest, any format, any art show, anything is going to shift the focus to that format and reduce skateboarding.
But skateboarding is something that shouldn’t be reduced…
Yeah, but it will be if that format wins. So you have to be careful to show that skateboarding is more than the format. Otherwise skateboarding itself gets reduced and I think it’s the challenge for the whole skateboarding world to look after the values of skating. I’m not even necessarily against the Olympics… Imagine how much the Olympics are going to do for skateboarding in Asia and Africa. The greater parts of the world’s population who don’t know about skateboarding and the Olympics are going to show it to them.
I know what you mean, it’s a bit selfish not to want everyone to enjoy skateboarding as much as we do.
Yeah. Consider the Olympics like a gateway drug. (Laughs). The reason why people like skateboarding is because it’s not like the Olympics, so I don’t think we’re in as much danger as we think. And I think perhaps the Olympics can become more interesting because of skateboarding… I mean you never know!
The main danger with the Olympics is that it’s a centralisation of power – so you’re gonna have a federation that, you know, makes calls about how skateboarding gets portrayed, and who’s in and who’s out and so on. But we are the first sport, as far as I know, that have been allowed to create their own federation, because the skaters, the whole skate world, insisted that we’re not gonna be part of this the same way snowboarding was, which was put under the skiing federation and got raped. (Laughs). Skaters have actually managed to get their own federation – the ISF – and say what you want about the ISF but I think they’re backed by a lot of people in skating who really know what skating is about and know what they’re talking about. You’re worrying about the Olympics? Get involved in the ISF! If you have something to say, be involved in your or national skate organisation. Make sure it’s not shit.
Basically if you’re complaining about the Olympics contact the people from Dime Glory Challenge or the CPH Open, and get them involved in the ISF.
Haha, yeah exactly. Or just do your own Dime Challenge, or Copenhagen Open – same as we do our events here. Like the Skate Malmö Street and all this stuff, we were trying to move away from a rigid comp format and be more about the formats reflecting the experience of a skate session as much as possible, because no one cares about who wins contests anyways. Plus just because there’s a format doesn’t mean that’s the law. I thought skaters were supposed to break the law you know? Go right ahead.
Vanessa Torres, backside five-o at Svampen, one of the public squares improved by Gustav’s work with the Streets and Parks Department. Photo by Alejandro Olivera.
Any parting words?
If you’re a company working in an industry then you need to put your money where your market is, and the skate market has been dominated by young teenage, and recently rich, boys. But that’s only a fraction of all the people that could be involved in skating. … That’s all good and that’s been the foundation of skateboarding culture. I don’t mean to slag that model off but from my experience it’s been really interesting to work with money that can be directed completely differently.
My budget (Malmö’s) is supposed to create benefits for the citizens of Malmö and also to market Malmö as a destination. That means that I can invest in female skating without needing to make money back from it, which has helped grow female skateboarding in Malmö. We can put skate spots in areas that need it rather than in areas where they can make the most money.
We can have a whole social approach to how we work with skating and to me working in that way really reflects some of the core values of skateboarding. I think as the skate shops are dying because they have too high overheads and online shopping is taking over, I think we’re going to see the skateboarding organisations, like Bryggeriet or the different skate organisations around the world become more important. They’re going to sort of be the culture bearers. They’ll be the ones who’ll be going to get funding to do fun stuff and help skating grow, and I don’t mean to say its going to replace the skate shop, but I’m saying it’s something that’s good to get involved in.
So if you’re in a town where you have all these different factions of people and shops, if you can get a strong skate organisation together that’s democratic, where people come from all the different camps and talk together, and if you can be a good partner to the city, the money you’re going to get back you’re going to be able to spend in ways that have really interesting opportunities. So at the risk of finishing on a sort of political note, I would say you know, get involved in that stuff. It sounds boring and bureaucratic, but if you don’t get involved you leave the power to the people that do. So get involved.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 16, 2023
Broadway (full video) + an interview with Brett Nichols
‘An auteur is an artist with a distinctive approach, usually a film director whose filmmaking control is so unbounded but personal that the director is likened to the “author” of the film, which thus manifests the director’s unique style or thematic focus.’
There are skate filmmakers out there that are auteurs, ones where you know it’s their work as soon as you see it: it’s unmistakeable. Jacob Harris, William Strobeck and Joe Castrucci are a few that come to mind… But for all intents and purposes I’m here today to talk another auteur: Brett Nichols. Unlike the aforementioned few, Brett doesn’t get paid to make his videos, he makes them because he has to… He has to: to fuel his passion. He has to: to be satisfied, fulfilled… But Brett’s labours of love take time; filming began for
Broadway
in 2014 and
Pathways 2
in 2016. Without a brand breathing down your neck about deadlines and whatnot I suppose filming for a video could actually go on forever. Luckily for us Brett knew when his projects were done, which brings us here to this moment. After meeting Brett this past September at the Vladimir Film Festival in Croatia, where
Pathways 2
and
Broadway
first premiered, I was ecstatic to pick his brain about his process in making them. So if you’re interested in industrial design, spot porn, ‘vernacular architecture’, Bay Area skateboarding, or curious about Brett’s ‘rules’ for the films,
what his early influences were and much more keep reading on.
Brett Nichols Interview by Will Harmon
How did you first get into filming skateboarding?
Brett Nichols: I started skating in ‘93 and I didn’t really have access to skate videos, or magazines or anything like that, until maybe ‘96 or so. And in ‘96, I saw
Trilogy
and I just became obsessed with this format that I was completely unfamiliar with, even though I had already been skating for a few years. So I saw this format of a skate video and it was so foreign to me; the concept of a line didn’t even make sense. Like, ‘there’s a guy following with a camera and there’s someone that’s doing consecutive tricks! What’s happening right now?!’ I specifically remember Lavar McBride and
his last line at USC
just, you know, flip trick after flip trick, and it just blew my mind. And I think within a week of seeing that video, I borrowed my mom’s VHS-C camera and started filming my friends and having them film me. And it’s basically continued since then. There was never really a break from about ‘96 to now. So yeah, it was just seeing a video and being blown away and wanting to do it.
That’s an incredible first skate video to have watched. So when did you think: ‘I’m going to actually make a video one day’? Because going filming with your mom’s camera to like, making a full video, is such a different thing…
It’s obviously kind of a snowball effect: it starts off by filming your friends here and there, and then it turns into making a sponsor-me video and then that snowballs further into helping other people with videos, then to making your own videos. So yeah, it was just a progression.
Wes Allard kickflips as Brett films. Ph. Daniel Beck
Any other early inspirations?
Photosynthesis
might have been the first video that exposed me to the fact that you can show more than just skateboarding. You can set a tone and a feeling to what you’re watching and suck the viewer into your own little world. Because I certainly feel like when you watch
Photosynthesis
, it’s a rather surreal experience. You’re being presented with a lot of images that are not representative of what you’re seeing in real life, you know, just setting up little shots with animations or whatever it is. So that one exposed me to just unique art direction and wanting to do things creatively. Strangely enough
Cliché’s
Europa
I think was the first video that I saw that had end-to-end pretty unique architecture. And at the time I didn’t really grasp what I liked so much about it, but when I look back on it, everything’s really aesthetically pleasing throughout that entire video; it was pretty well put together. So yeah, that one too was definitely an earlier inspiration.
I know you grew up in Southern California, which is the birthplace and arguably has been the heart of skateboarding for a long time, so it’s interesting that
Europa
kind of moved you because of the architecture.
Yeah, I mean there were certainly Southern California videos that I really enjoyed and grew up watching a lot. Frankly,
Trilogy
is mostly filmed in Southern California. But yes, whenever I would see a video from another place, like seeing what I’ll call their vernacular architecture, architecture that’s specific to a region… Seeing a new collection of vernacular architecture is really intriguing to me, and kind of sucks me into a new place. It feels like you’re going on a new adventure. And so that’s
Europa
, but also
Photosynthesis
. I can’t really say that I had seen much East Coast skateboarding before I saw
Photosynthesis
.
Ah I see. So speaking of a change of architecture, when and why did you move up to the Bay Area from SoCal?
I guess the first time I lived here was in 2005, but that was fairly brief and I had to go home for some family reasons. But I returned back in 2007, to go to Berkeley. I went to UC Berkeley and studied Political Science. And that was just the whole impetus: I came here to go to school and just never left. I loved it too much. Growing up in Southern California and filming, skating and being filmed and all this stuff, I spent so much time in a car driving. You know, you go to one spot that’s in the Valley and then the next thing you know, we’re driving to like Riverside County… The driving culture behind skating in LA is insane. And so I moved up here, and it’s like, ‘oh, there’s spots on every block!’ I don’t have to go that far to have a good time street skating and I got so drawn into that. And then back to the whole idea of just being drawn into my surroundings, having so much interesting architecture and sculpture and… The culture. I mean, there’s so much more happening here than in Southern California. So I just never really had any desire to move back.
Harrison Hafner, ollie up, drop to feeble grind 180. Photo: Tadashi Yamaoda
That’s dope. Okay so I want to talk about these two videos:
Pathways 2
and
Broadway
. Were they made over the same time period?
Broadway
was started when I was still working on the first
Pathways
. You know with the
Pathways
concept, I really hemmed myself in to skating spots that have a certain design style;
modern
and
post-modern
architecture. And that can be pretty challenging, especially considering where I live in Oakland looks nothing like that. You have to go to specific areas to find it; you might be in downtown Oakland or downtown San Francisco or in wine country or what we call the peninsula… I’d have to go to these very specific areas to find these particular spots, while you know, right where I live in every single direction are spots that look more like what you’d see in
Broadway
, which focuses on older architecture. And so I just wanted to actually utilise my surroundings, because it was kind of an odd choice to just constantly pass that stuff up. So I decided to start the
Broadway
video in 2014, really, just to branch out and start utilising all the spots that I had been searching out for years. I’d already wandered every inch of the Bay coastline for industrial remnants, and countless bike rides through every neighbourhood looking for spots. I mean, I’ve always been obsessed with spot searching, and so by the time we get to 2014, I had a spot book big enough for
Broadway
that I could make three of these videos. So I just needed to do something new.
I see.
Pathways 2
was started right after the first
Pathways
came out (early 2016). The moment it was done, I was already starting
Pathways 2
. Because the first one was sort of an experiment trying to figure out what exactly I wanted to do with it, and by the time I started the second one, I had the concept pretty nailed down. And there were so many spots that were leftover that I had found that I hadn’t documented, and it was really just the desire to document every one of these locations. I also honed my methods to get the surreal b-roll: locating as many kinetic sculptures as possible, lots of science and art museums, and even robotics events. I knew I could do more the second time around.
Pathways 2
is obviously a continuation of the first
Pathways
, but I want to know, in the first place, what gave you the idea to create a video full of all this unique street furniture/architecture?
I mean, it goes back to my obsession with skate videos. I’ve been collecting skate videos ever since I’ve had my own money to spend on them.
I’ve seen
a photo
of your collection!
Yeah, haha, and I’ve been drawn especially to independent videos from different regions, because it kind of shows you a time, a place, a group of people, and specific sort of styles of skating that you might not get to see in a mainstream video. And I was especially infatuated by Japanese videos, when I finally got access to them. So I think the first one that I saw was
Behind the Broad
around 2005, and then
Skate Archives
in I’d say 2007. And
Skate Archives
, something about it just blew my mind, because not all of the skating was, you know, at the highest level, but the spots, and the feeling that I got from that video was so unique, because it just looked nothing like where I live. This is back to that whole idea of seeing a new collection of vernacular architecture… So seeing what it looked like in Japan was something new to me, and also just the way that they were skating. It was a lot of compact hyper-modern architecture, lots of tiles, unique materials, and amoebic forms; obstacles lining thin spaces on the sides of buildings. They were doing all this quick foot stuff, they were skating funky sorts of street transitions, and just things that weren’t so common where I lived.
Yeah Japanese architecture looks so sick…
And so, I just say over the years from, let’s say, 2007, to the point of starting
Pathways
in 2011, I got access to more of those videos and I had a knee injury, I think my third (in 2011) and I just needed to do something new, like I needed to just branch out and figure out a way to be creative during my injury. And before that, I’d already always been kind of focused on filming my own skating.
Yeah I see.
And then in 2011 I just said, ‘I’m gonna start a video.’ And you know, I’ve got this infatuation with these Japanese videos, so I thought, ‘can I do something similar where I live?’ Because I started kind of putting it together in my head that little elements of what I would see in those videos exist all over my city, but in just different areas. For instance in downtown I might see one thing and in some little park I might see another thing…. And I thought that if I just focus exactly on those elements, I can sort of reshape and create a different world, and a different surrounding, than what I actually live in.
Chris Jatoft, blunt fakie in a death trap. Ph. Tadashi Yamaoda
Yeah, I mean, you really l picked out all these incredible spots, and non-spots I’d even say, and put them all together… Great curation. So was
Pathways
your first full-length video?
Yeah, I mean, I’d helped work on videos in the past, mostly filming, but never had really edited anything before. So that was my first foray into filming and editing a complete project.
That’s pretty impressive.
I watched a lot of skate videos. So I had a lot of context.
What kind of process did you have sourcing and scouting all the spots for the
Pathways
videos? Was it basically driving around? Or did you do some (Google) Street View stuff or word of mouth?
For
Pathways
, for one, I’ve been non-stop spot searching, as long as I can remember, going back to the times of living in Southern California. So just being on the street and looking for spots constantly, for you know, 20 years, I already had a bank of these spots in my head from Southern California. So in the first video, and in the second one, for that matter, I did a number of trips to SoCal to document all these spots that I kind of knew about and just ignored, because they weren’t, at that time, engaging to me, or I didn’t really see any need to go skate or document them. And then suddenly, when I started this project, I had this big library of spots in my head already. And the same thing with the Bay Area, you know, I’ve been living here continuously from 2007, to the point of starting the first P
athways
in 2011. And I already had a bank of spots, I just had to sort of think about it, like, ‘here’s the concept. What do I know about, that fits in that box?’ basically. Then finding new stuff: it was just continuing to look around, and knowing that there’s a specific design style I’m looking for and I knew where I could find that sort of stuff.
Tom Brinkerhoff, wallride. Ph. Brett Nichols
And where is that?
It tends to be in a city centre. So, you know, go check out the city centre, or downtown of every single city within a couple hours’ drive and see what you find. I’d also figured out through trial and error, practise, or maybe repetition that if you go to all these city centres, especially for, let’s say, medium-sized cities, often they would have really interesting modernist buildings from the ‘60s or ‘70s and you might find some really interesting element that’s never been documented, if you kind of go a little bit off the beaten path.
So you created a process.
Yeah. So for instance if you go to downtown Fresno, which is a place that you wouldn’t think people would often visit, you’re going to find some interesting spots that haven’t really been documented.
Fresno! Yeah I never thought about going there to skate.
Not many people go there to skate, especially for what I want to capture. But if you go check out their city centre, there’s some interesting little elements. One of which was actually a really famous
photo of (OG) Tom Knox
and it’s this
drained fountain
that snakes through the centre of their downtown. It’s designed by
Garrett Eckbo
, who’s a really important modernist landscape architect, which is itself useful information you can use: what else did the guy design and is it skateable?
Another piece would be just Google searching. I figured out certain design styles and elements and things that were good search terms, and then I’d just attach every single city name to it. An example would be: ‘Modern Public Sculpture Piedmont’, and just keep adding city names to it. And I’d just spend hours trying to find spots through random Google searches. I’d say there’s a nice chunk of spots that are just found through that method. Also, people knew I was doing this project, and every now and then someone would come to me with a really amazing spot. Because they’re like, ‘Oh, I know you’re doing this thing. I found this spot. Let’s check it out.’
Josh Paz, alley-oop front bluntslide after moving around wood chips for a half hour. Photo: Derek Popple
Was it hard to persuade some of the skaters to skate these funky spots? Did you have to bribe them or anything?
Haha… Yeah, I got really used to people rolling their eyes at me. I would bring people to things that were hardly spots and I would want people to skate them so badly. And we really would stretch the definition of what counts as a trick or what counts as a spot. I mean there’s spots where we’re really not even rolling away from it. So I started using the argument that well, ‘landing a trick is a construct’. So yeah, you might not be able to roll away from this, but it’s going to look interesting. You’re on your board and the surroundings are engaging. But yeah, sometimes I would have to help people work on some other video part; I would film them do a few things for that and then a few things for
Pathways
.
A trade off then…
Yeah. By the time I started
Pathways 2
I think the concept was proven out so people were a little more willing. So the second one might have been a little easier to make in that sense. But, you know, it definitely was a challenge. The spots weren’t always fun. Some of the stuff can be kind of a headache to skate. So when I say rolling away is a construct, think of those concrete playground slides that go straight into sand. So you know, there’s no rolling away, but they look so interesting to me. And that actually goes back to the Japanese videos; I got really into trying to find concrete playgrounds, because that’s a really common element within those videos. And I just wanted to document as many of those things as I could find, because I knew that they existed here.
So on a typical day, say in like 2017, would you hit a
Pathways
spot and a
Broadway
spot in the same day?
Oh sure. I mean, it just kind of depends where I was, you know?
Broadway
has specific geographic boundaries to it, so if I was outside of that geographic boundary it was an only-
Pathways
day, but if I’m in the East Bay or something, I would definitely go to both. Depends on who was with me too… There are some people whose style of skating is more amenable to the
Pathways
concept, or more amenable to the
Broadway
concept, so that would definitely help determine where we go as well. People with transition skills definitely excel in
Pathways
, while power and pop might suit
Broadway
better, but there’s plenty of crossover for each.
Harrison Hafner, frontside ollie to 50-50. Photo: Tadashi Yamaoda
You briefly alluded to this earlier, but I know you had a specific set of rules for
Broadway
and that all the footage had to be shot in the Bay Area excluding its biggest city, San Francisco. Can you tell us a little bit about that? And why you chose to do that?
So earlier I said I moved up here to the East Bay, I lived in Berkeley and Oakland, and I would see what I thought to be incredible spots everywhere, and often kind of overlooked because everyone comes here for trips to San Francisco, as that’s the popular place to visit. Local skate media is centralised in San Francisco as are many of the skaters actively working on video projects. There’s great East Bay videos to point to like
Focus Group
,
The 510 Video
,
Island
, or
Dangerfun
, but the volume of output is not that of SF. It’s the underdog scene and I love it. Of course in any Bay Area video you’re going to see a handful of Oakland spots, but you know, people aren’t really travelling that deep. And there’s practical reasons for it.
I mean it’s easier to get around without a car I found in SF than in Oakland, but that was my experience 15 years ago, maybe that’s changed?
Yeah, it definitely helps to have a car to skate in Oakland, or at least a bike. I mean I definitely did plenty of bike missions, but it helps to have a car as the spots definitely can be more spread out. There are really amazing gems that are just kind of buried into a hill or something where you have to drive up a mountain, and it doesn’t make sense to skate to get there. There’s so much to offer in San Francisco, and it’s such an amazing skate city, that often people don’t leave. And so I spent all these years looking around seeing so much cool stuff in the East Bay so I was like, ‘man, it’d be kind of interesting to just try to document this area.’ And there was a specific moment that drew me to it…
There was a video by this guy West Van Heest called
In Crust We Trust
. And it was filmed in New Jersey, but from my understanding they lived pretty much across the bridge from Manhattan and (in the video) there’s no tricks in New York. I read about it on the
Quartersnacks
blog and they were giving them a lot of credit for the fact that whenever people talk about New Jersey videos, it’s often filmed 75% in New York, but these guys really stuck to their area. And so that kind of swirled around in my head for a while. And you know, I’m seeing all these amazing spots, and I’m thinking, ‘Oh, what if I did something like that?’ And so I set this boundary where I’m like, ‘Okay, I’ll film in the Bay Area, just not in San Francisco’, just to show everything else that this area has to offer. And I’d also say that if you exclude San Francisco and just have East Bay spots, it looks different.
Greg Demartini backside tailslides at a long-gone concrete factory. Ph. Brett Nichols
It definitely does.
If you see one or two East Bay spots in a San Francisco video, it blends in and you won’t really notice it’s a different place. But if every single spot is outside of San Francisco, it’s a completely different feel, in my opinion. So yeah, it started off just as East Bay; Berkeley, Oakland, Richmond, Crockett, Rodeo, kind of all these towns all along the East Bay and then stretched out a little bit on the other side is just a few clips in the peninsula, which is just south of San Francisco. There’s a lot of clips in the Northeast Bay, which would be Vallejo, Benicia and some other random towns.
Then there’s a video called
Grains
, by Kevin DelGrosso, and he was filming all in these different rural areas around the Midwest, finding really unique, crusty spots. And so I started going a little further out thinking: ‘can I do something like that?’ And so it started off visiting Santa Rosa and other areas in wine country. Then eventually I started just going to completely remote areas to see what can be found, and actually had a lot of successes there. And some of my favourite footage from
Broadway
is in tiny towns of like 1000 people that are completely rural, and somewhere where no one would really visit to go film. These towns have been slow to rebuild, and often have odd bank riddled formations that aren’t up to modern building codes.
That’s so cool. So when you had friends visit you, did you always stick to the strict parameters of
Pathways
and
Broadway
to film?
If I had a friend come up and visit, I would certainly be totally open. And I would often tell them, ‘Hey, I’m doing these videos with these concepts. We can go skate more traditional SF spots, and I’m happy to film you. I’ll give you the footage, it’s just not going to fit the concept of what I’m doing.’ So it would kind of be challenging.
I’m sure that would also encourage them to be like, ‘well let’s maybe go to one of these spots that fits your criteria.’
People would come up and visit and never step foot in San Francisco too, because all we did was film for
Broadway
the entire time. And we barely left a two-mile radius of my house. And that’s the thing, as I said
Broadway
was filmed all over Northern California, but there’s a nice chunk of that video that’s right by my house. As I worked on the video, more and more people were filming in the East Bay, and I saw more and more footage happening in Oakland. But you know, I feel if you watch the video, a lot of those spots hadn’t been documented before. And a ton of them are really centrally located in Oakland.
Elijah Akerly, frontside feeble grind to flat. Ph. Tadashi Yamaoda
I also really appreciate the effort that went into the B-roll in
Broadway
. Did you have a checklist of all these things you wanted to capture? How did you manage that? I hate to even call it B-roll. It’s like A-roll, just non-skating.
Well, for one, yes, I actually kept a spreadsheet in my phone; I’m an Excel fan. So I kept a pretty comprehensive spreadsheet and anytime I had an idea, I would just either write it down, and just kind of check them off one at a time. I would think about the spots or the tricks that I’ve captured, and consider: what can I do to sort of accentuate that clip? Like, what’s the design style of the clip? Curvy and banked
Spanish revival
architecture spots are cut with
Spanish revival belltowers
. A
local water temple
is cut with a skate clip at the similar looking
Lake Merritt bandstand
.
Neoclassical
stone banks are cut with the neoclassical
UC Berkeley clock tower
. It’s an attempt to show our older vernacular architecture, and set a scene that feels aged. Or, you know, pulling some element out of it, maybe a colour, shape, or texture and then finding some B-roll that matches it. And then it was a lot of being in the right place at the right time and a lot of it was due to me just always carrying a Super-8 camera.
So let’s say for the entire time that I was filming for
Broadway
, I more or less left my house with a Super-8 camera, I don’t know, 80% of the time. So I caught sideshows, cultural events with street performances, and building demolitions. Then, sometimes I would see little moments where I knew something was going to happen and I would immediately go home and get my camera and go back there and just camp out and wait for it. An example would be footage of a crane being raised in
Broadway
and I literally just sat there for hours because I knew they were about to do it. Or I’d be waiting hours for a freight train to cross an old train bridge. A lot of it was just me riding my bike around for hours and hours and just waiting and seeing what could happen; maybe running into someone painting a freight car and politely asking to film them. And then a lot of it was just focusing on my surroundings and trying to find things that were kinetic and had movement. So some of the factory stuff, you know, I’d just be out looking for spots or out skating, and I would see some visible elements at a factory that were moving, whether it was a conveyor belt or, you know, something that’s smashing molten metal, whatever it was, and I would just take note of it and go back in and try to document it. Some of the industrial stuff was even caught from the SF Bay Ferry and a little boat a friend had access to!
The amount of Super-8… I mean, you must have spent a fortune on developing. Did anyone else help you fund either of these videos?
No, completely on my own.
Completely independent, that’s what I thought. And have you ever filmed for any brands before?
I mean, going way back to maybe the mid-2000s, you know, here and there clips that I had filmed would end up in a brand’s video, but it was never really a focus.
So filming skating has always been a hobby, basically, you’re not earning a lot of money on it.
I had the skate dream, like every other kid did. And I gave up on mine. I think by the time I was about 16 or so, when I had my first knee injury, and I was like, ‘oh, injuries are a thing and that would prevent me from making money in this dream world. So I should probably figure something else out.’ My peak was turning am for Media Skateboards on their last breath! Didn’t make it far, and so ever since then, it’s always been a hobby, but I’ve continued to want to document just because I need to do something creative. I need to have some outlets.
Yeah…
So it’s just a way to be fulfilled.
Gerardo Peniche, front board pop-out. Ph. Tadashi Yamaoda
If I had to guess what your day job was, I’d say a fireman because you have so much Super-8 footage of fires burning and being put out. Do you want to tell the readers what your actual day job is?
There was a rumour after the premiere that I was actually a secret arsonist, haha. In Oakland specifically, there’s a lot of old buildings with a lot of old wiring and things catch on fire. And that would be another thing I was always looking for… I documented a lot of fires by just always having an eye on the horizon. And so when I saw clouds of smoke, I would go find it.
Oh okay…
And that’s the thing: I had all these things in the back of my brain, you know, look for this, look for that, and when it happens, get the camera and document it. But my day job: I’m a software product manager. I kind of sit in between the business, design and engineering teams. With the business team, I find opportunities, or maybe with a support team, I find problems that we need to fix. Or through data I might notice some problem, and then I work with the design and engineering teams to solve the problem. So it’s coming up with new features, laying them out with the designers, and then writing out all the requirements for the engineers on how something should actually work.
Oh that’s cool, and also sounds way over my head… Then also you run an Instagram account
@the_built.environment
. Do you want to talk about that a little?
The built environment essentially started off as just a general interest in sculpture and architecture. And I just posted photos of things that I saw that I found engaging, and then over time I started mixing more and more skating into it. And at this point now it’s kind of like a
Pathways
collection, from other videos and magazines. So I just seek out these little moments in videos that fit the
Pathways
concept. They’re either, you know, modern architecture, modern sculpture, whatever it may be, and I’m posting photos of the thing that they’re skating, who designed it, the history behind it, and then have the documented skating to go with it. I think one really interesting thing by digging into this stuff a little bit deeper is that you find that we skate so much stuff that’s actually designed by the same people and so that’s something that’s always interested me.
Yeah these designers. Like, who are they?
Yes, ‘who are these designers?’, and then you start to find that so many of these places that we hold near and dear are designed by the same people. I’ll give a fun example: there’s this guy
Jim Miller-Mellberg
, and he’s more of what I would call an industrial designer. He designs
park equipment
like benches, trash cans, water fountains, but then also has all these
concrete playground sculptures
. So through the ‘60s to early ‘80s he was designing all these different playground sculptures out there all over the country, and his benches are all over the country. They’re easy on the eyes. And so I have seen so many clips on a Jim Miller-Mellberg obstacle that I would say by count of unique locations, he’s probably the most documented designer ever.
A Jim Miller Melberg playwall sculpture. Ph. Brett Nichols
In skate footage, yeah… That makes sense.
Yep, and not only the spot itself but in the background too. There’s his stuff in the background of so many clips, and it might be hard to find a clip that shows it because of maybe the angle they’re filming it, but that that banked ledge down stairs in Miami, there’s a Jim Miller-Mellberg playground sculpture in the background. There’s the spot in Manhattan where people ollie up onto the ledge and then do tricks over a gap onto those colourful circular pads…
Yes!
There’s a Jim Miller-Mellberg sculpture in the background.
It’s a long list.
And then let’s talk tricks: Chad Muska does a roll-in on one of his curved basketball hoops in
This is my Element
. I filmed on a number of the Miller-Melberg concrete playground structures in both
Pathways
. Cairo Foster ollies his most common concrete sculpture, the dolphin, in
The Reason
. There’s that famous red bump to table that I think Cooper Wilt had tricks on in
Time to Shine,
and that’s the most ubiquitous obstacle of his. They’re these benches that have slightly banked fronts and backs that I’ve seen in so many different videos from multiple locations. The list of obstacles and clips could go on and on.
Wow, that’s amazing. In another life do you think you would have studied to be an architect?
Yeah, I mean, it might have been a better decision. You know, I originally thought I was going to get into Political Science, like to be a professor. I did research trips; I actually went to East Timor, which is a small country in Southeast Asia. I went there for research, and I actually got to hang out with their then-President and Nobel Laureate, José Ramos-Jorta. I also
taught skateboarding there
. I brought a bunch of skateboards to this small country and taught kids to skate. And so I totally thought my life was going to be about being a researcher, and then when I actually went on that trip, I realised that I enjoyed everything about the experience except the research. I had to go into government offices and dig through documents and it was way less interesting than teaching all these kids to skate and experiencing this really foreign culture. So after that trip, I decided that it just wasn’t for me. This was right after I graduated and I just had to figure something out. So I kind of just fell into the tech world because I live in the Bay Area, and that’s kind of the common job to get. And over time it became something that I was interested in. But at first, it was just sort of out of necessity.
Josh Paz, backside tailslide. Ph. Tadashi Yamaoda
I see. Let’s talk about the music in these videos. How did you discover it or know about it?
Pathways 2
is mostly very early synthesised music and jazz fusion, a nod to the electronic-heavy Japanese videos it’s inspired by.
Broadway
, on the other hand, is all over the place. There’s a few old movie theme songs and two songs from theatre organs, the instrument played in the first shot of the video. For both videos a bunch were found through playlists. YouTube has automated playlists, so say you come across a certain song, and then on the right column, there’s an automated playlist you can get, and it just kind of goes into a vortex. And I would just open tabs and go into a playlist, I’d play a song for three to five seconds and then go to the next. I’d say I found a song to use every 1000. So yeah, I spent a lot of time trying to find songs, haha. Some of it was music I was into, so not all of it was found through this method. Also there were some songs found through pure serendipity where my friend had something playing on a speaker when we were skating in a parking lot or something and I was like, ‘Oh, my god, this is perfect. What is this?’ I had a few people recommend songs too. Chris Jatoft found a song on a Lyft ride! For the most part though, it was just me getting buried into these playlists and eventually finding songs that worked.
So you premiered these films in September 2022
at Vladimir
and then you had the local Bay Area premiere in late November. Obviously when people read this, these two videos will be on our website, but aren’t you making a booklet to go with it? And this will include a DVD/DVDs?
Yeah, I am making a DVD and I have a full magazine that gets into a lot of concepts… It’s kind of a lot of the things that we just talked about, but there’s definitely some in-depth topics in there that we’ve not discussed. So that will come when it comes. You know I’ve got a full-time job and busy life and I realised that there was a decent amount of work left to do to make that happen. Also working with Cosme, the designer, on the magazine, working with his schedule as well as he’s a full-time professor beyond being a talented designer: it’s going to take a little bit more time. And you know I’d rather just take my time and get it out when I get it out. And I know that I’m doing this backwards, like, not the traditional way to do it, usually you do the hardcopy first, and I am aware that that’s going to mean probably not as many people will buy it, but ultimately, that’s not exactly the goal for me. I just want to create something that people will put in their collections. I myself have been a skate video collector forever and I want people to have this in their own collections. So I’ll probably do what I did with the first
Pathways
, which is: I actually sent those DVDs to skate shops all over the world and to friends. I would send friends a box of them and just have them give them away to their friends. So that’s probably the way that we’ll do this one as well. If you’re reading this interview, and you want one, send me a DM on Instagram and I’ll figure out how to get one into your hands.
Chris Jatoft, frontside air to bank. Ph. Tadashi Yamaoda
And following up on what you said at Vladimir in Croatia, are these two videos really your swan song?
I don’t know. I thought for sure they would be because I have been, as I said, continuously documenting and being documented skateboarding for what has been about 25 years, or a little longer, and so I was like, ‘oh, man, maybe I should just retire to a mini ramp and a curb or something.’ But as I’m wrapping up, and nearing the end, I’ve got all these ideas swirling in my head. At the same time, it’s a personal sacrifice to work on these projects; it’s almost like a second full-time job that costs money. I do my full-time job and then I finish it, then I edit for, you know, 1-3 hours a night, and then the weekend rolls around, and I film one day on the weekend, maybe one day in the middle of the week, and then maybe, you know, four or five hours editing one of the nights on the weekends. So it’s a bit of a personal sacrifice. So I’ll definitely say that I’m going to step away from it for a little bit and just kind of see how I feel. And maybe there’s another project, maybe there won’t be, I don’t know yet.
Okay, well I can live with that answer. And it fills me with a bit of joy compared to talking to you when we were in Croatia.
Yeah, you mean when I told you that there is no way that I’m going to do another video, ha! Yeah, I mean, if I were to make another project, it would probably have a little bit less restricting of a concept. I still think no matter what, I would try to do something that’s visually engaging. And you know, I’m not going to suddenly start taking trips to SoCal to film at some rail spot at an elementary school. That’s not going to happen. Yeah, but at the same time, if I were to do another project, it would be a little more open ended I’m sure. I still have a giant catalogue of aesthetically pleasing spots I’ve yet to capture. We’ll see…

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  February 21, 2024
Pusher Bearings – STAMINA
No sign of
Jesus
or
Julio De La Cruz
and the editing is maybe a little intense but there’s definitely some great skating in this new Pusher Bearings edit. Plus it gives us an excuse to share this mental Nick Dias part from 2019 that just surfaced:
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Nicholas Dias (@kingdiass)

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 9, 2024
The Skateboard Pavilion and Other Art That Skaters Might Like
The Skateboard Pavilion and Other Art That Skaters Might Like
Words by Sam Korman
The following text is adapted from a talk I gave as part of ‘
Empathy and Texture: On Skateboarding and Art
’, a panel discussion organised by art historian Ted Barrow, which also included Jerry Hsu, Akwasi Owusu, and Louis Sarowsky (aka Lurker Lou). It was one of three panels at
Slow Impact 2023
, sharing the bill with ‘Podium or Per Diem’, chaired by Krux team manager Alex White, and ‘You Are Skating on Native Land’, hosted by ASU professor Maurice Crandall. (Shout out to Ryan Lay for putting the whole conference together.) Though our panel aimed to discuss the relationship between art and skateboarding, I never really wanted to touch the thorny question of whether skate-boarding is art—frankly, it’s never been that useful of a definition to me. My approach had more to do with offering skaters some additional context for what they do, and by exploring certain formal, thematic, and political similarities between skateboarding and specific artworks; I wanted to create a new toolkit by which we can appreciate skating’s sickness, as well. And if skaters find some art they like in this primer on post-WWII contemporary art, then that’s sick, too. So, I suppose, we can just jump right in.
Dan Graham, Skateboard Pavilion, 1989. Courtesy the Estate of Dan Graham.
Skateboard Pavilion
1989
When I got to art school, I thought you had to be really serious if you wanted to be an artist. I had grown up on television, and obsessively watched
The Simpsons
. But, now I couldn’t just make weird little things for my friends anymore—I felt I had to read philosophy and make declarative statements about capitalism. I couldn’t just fulfil an assignment designed to teach me how to use a table saw, I had to critique the institution in which that table saw existed, I had to expose the labour conditions that created a need for the table saw in the first place.
It was not enough to make something unique, either. To make a painting, I now needed a strong grasp of the gallery system, the international art market, and how these things were suddenly tied to the illegal movement of financial assets throughout the world. TV was no longer the answer, or so I assumed.
The answer was to read
Discipline and Punish
like 10 times (okay, this one probably did me some good). And most importantly, I absolutely could not be funny. It was all so damn serious.
Then I discovered the conceptual artist and overall malcontent Dan Graham and the door flew open on my fallacy that an artist was a singular type, his irreverence demonstrated that someone who’s artistic sensibilities were informed largely by
The Simpsons
might have a foothold in this world after all. One thing I always appreciated was Graham’s scepticism. He disdained the artist label, preferring to think of himself as an amateur. Hardly sacrosanct about the form his work took, he made sculptures, took photos, wrote essays, did research, ran a gallery. His art might take the form of an ad in a magazine. He encouraged artists to keep their receipts, so they could return materials after they used them for an exhibition. His influences were also far ranging. He loved comics and sci-fi. His favourite band was The Kinks. And he was obsessed with punk, even though he was already pushing 40 by the time it came on the scene. His video essay
Rock My Religion
(1984) was a landmark piece for me. It situated the iconoclasm of Patti Smith and the hysterical audience dynamics of early rock performances in the lineage of religious sects like the Shakers, and playfully set recordings of devout Christian ritual and cult-like dance to tracks by Sonic Youth. ‘Rock is the first music form to be totally commercial and consumer-exploitative. It is largely produced by adults specifically to exploit a vast new adolescent market,’ Graham says in
Rock My Religion
, echoing skateboarding’s similarly commercial roots. ‘But, ambiguously built into rock ‘n’ roll is a self-consciousness that it is a commercialised form and thus is not to be taken totally seriously by the teenagers who listen to it. The nature of this compromised position can be discerned in the irony of a song such as “Johnny B. Goode.”’
Perhaps most important, though, was the discovery of
Skateboard Pavilion
. In the mid-1980s, Graham was approached by a large horticultural festival in Stuttgart, Germany to propose a public artwork that would be installed in a newly renovated garden during the city-wide event. Graham was already exploring ideas around public space and architecture. During the 1980s and ‘90s, he developed a series of pavilions consisting of one-way mirror glass, a popular building material synonymous with corporate architecture of the time, as well as a useful surveillance tool—think police interrogation rooms. To explore this aesthetic opacity and its relationship to economic power, his pavilions would often create a recursive relationship with the viewer or viewers, refracting and distorting their gaze. When he proposed a pavilion as a playground, it resulted in a playful, postmodern funhouse. Those pavilions located closer to their source material—say, a corporate plaza—resulted in a more fractured and antagonistic head trip.
In any case, trouble maker that he was, Graham grasped that the festival was part of a larger urban renewal project, and wanted to disrupt the pristine image the organisers sought to create. To do so, he proposed a skate bowl for one of the main gardens. Its surface was graffitied with band names like Black Flag and Fugazi, skate crews like the Bones Brigade, and, bizarrely, the terrorist Bin Laden. A pyramidal pavilion hovered directly over the bowl, shading it like a reflective hood. Unsurprisingly, the organisers rejected it. Though it was proposed a number of times in the ensuing years, all we have is the model. It was never realised.
For me, it seems ok that he never built the skate bowl. It might be one of those projects that’s better as an idea—I love that skateboarding could inspire both practical and aesthetic provocations.
But one thing always nagged at me: the pyramidal awning. Before Graham died, I had the chance to address the issue with him during a studio visit, where I suggested that the awning’s kaleidoscopic effect would cause skaters to bail every trick. Graham looked at me, scratched his head, and smirked. ‘I built the awning for the skaters,’ he explained. ‘I wanted them to have a psychedelic experience while they were in the air.’ Then he laughed mischievously for a few moments before abruptly changing the subject.
David Johnson, Loiter (Samuel), 2021. Photo Sebastian Bach. Image courtesy the artist and Theta, New York.
Loiter
2020-ongoing
David L. Johnson liberates ledges, benches, standpipes, and other potential seating areas from the clutches of hostile architecture. Think skate stoppers, but also any spiky or bulbous element that deters people from having a sit. He then exhibits these metal braces as sculptures in a gallery. Here, some of them look like a cross between a bear trap and minimalist sculptures from the 1960s and ’70s
(Loiter (Peter, Steven)
(2021)), whereas others reflect the insidiousness of their unassuming design
(Loiter (John)
(2020)). The tangible benefit of Johnson’s vigilante art practice should be pretty obvious: whether intentional or not, he makes spots skateable again. But I would imagine that his approach to public space would resonate with skaters, as well.
He similarly accepts petty crimes as part of his craft, exploiting the tension between private and public, creation and destruction, to produce artworks that are as poetic as they are political.
There is the law, someone once said, and there is what is done.
Mierle Laderman Ukeles, Touch Sanitation Performance, 1979-80. July 24, 1979-June 26, 1980. Citywide performance with 8,500 Sanitation workers across all 59 New York City Sanitation districts. Date unknown. Sweep 3, Manhattan 3. Photo: Robin Holland. © Mierle Laderman Ukeles. Courtesy the artist and Ronald Feldman Gallery, New York.
Touch Sanitation Performance
1979-80
Something happened in skateboarding over the last few years, a change in consciousness. Skaters are paying more attention to the work that goes into their spots, the care that goes into their community. We still love to nerd out on the nuances of a clip, but now the conversation also extends to the people who break in the curbs, sweep the parking lots, Bondo the cracks, hunt the spots, coordinate the session, and organise the meetups. Frankly, it’s overdue, but thankfully, how we define skateboarding increasingly includes a consideration of all these other efforts.
A very similar situation occurred in the art during the 1960s. Under the influence of leftist politics and second wave feminism, artists began to reconsider the role of labour and gender in the art world, centring questions of care and maintenance to their practices. The most famous example of this re-examination was, perhaps, Mierle Laderman Ukeles, who, in 1969, declared she would no longer exhibit art objects, per se. Instead, she would foreground the largely invisible efforts that nonetheless sustain life, and prop up large-scale public institutions—like, say, cleaning, childcare, etc. ‘I will simply do these maintenance everyday things,’ she writes in her groundbreaking Maintenance Art Manifesto, ‘and flush them up to consciousness, exhibit them, as Art.’ In lieu of paintings or sculptures, viewers would see the artist sweeping, waxing the floors, dusting, washing the walls, cooking, hosting, and even changing the lightbulbs. ‘The exhibition area might look “empty”,’ she continues, ‘but it will be maintained in full public view.’
Ukeles’ practice was extremely radical in its time. While many artists turned their attention to the infrastructure that supported the art system—tearing down walls to expose the pipes, researching the real estate holdings of museum trustees—and engaging with the social—founding artist-run restaurants, organising artist job placement groups, cataloguing local histories—she, too, made the personal political, refocusing our attention on the life-sustaining efforts involved in being an artist, particularly as a young mother with strong artistic and political ambitions. As her work evolved, however, it became more important to, at least in part, shift attention from herself to the labour conditions faced by various city workers. For example, in 1976, she performed
I Make Maintenance Art One Hour Every Day
, in which she collaborated with the maintenance and cleaning staff at the Whitney Museum over a period of five months. The premise was simple, if profound: she asked 300 workers to label a given task as ‘art’ or ‘work’, with Ukeles creating a photographic taxonomy of the various assessments. For one cleaning woman, vacuuming was ‘work’, while dusting represented ‘art’. A few years later, she embarked on another large-scale project in collaboration with the New York Department of Sanitation,
Touch Sanitation Performance
(1979-80). Over the course of 11 months, Ukeles shook the hand of every sanitation worker in New York City. These were dark years, too. The city had defaulted, and labour unions in particular were under fire after massive sanitation strikes left the city full of garbage. But Ukeles tracked everyone down, and thanked them—8,500 in all.
‘Unfettered by object status,’ writes Lucy Lippard in her seminal book,
Six Years: The Dematerialization of the Art Object from 1966 to 1972
, ‘Conceptual artists were free to let their imaginations run rampant. With hindsight, it is clear to me that they could have run further.’ Lippard’s observation echoes my own weariness about Ukeles’ practice—and indeed, about making a comparison to skateboarding, though I still think it is important for skaters to grasp the full extent (and consequences) of her practice. In the 1960s and ‘70s, mapping the inner-workings of a political system was incredibly radical—and indeed, there was clearly a huge personal connection that Ukeles made with her subjects. In 2023, however, art has failed to shake its elitist associations. Audiences, too, are more sceptical of the purported revolutionary potential of art. And institutions have adapted to accommodate these historical gestures, making it even more difficult to engage even in the realpolitik of organisations and political systems. We want practical consequences where possible. We want money going to the right people. That’s to say, in 2023, shaking the hand of
a sanitation worker is not enough, as the sanitation worker still cannot transcend their circumstances the way an artist has the freedom to. We want progress, not pictures.
Nevertheless, in spite of the imperfections in Ukeles’ work, I am always drawn back to an oft-quoted line from Kurt Vonnegut: ‘Another flaw in the human character is that everybody wants to build and nobody wants to do maintenance.’ The shortcomings in Ukeles’ practice are a sharp reminder of art’s (and skateboarding’s) limitations as a political tool. Yet, while these symbolic acts failed to result in any structural change, the DSNY’s response to her work may suggest that all is not lost. For however problematic we might see Ukeles’ handshakes today, the department was clearly moved by the artist’s extended efforts, particularly at a time when the union was most embattled. The 11 months Ukeles spent on the performance would inspire the DSNY to create an artist in residence program in her honour, a position she would hold for the next several decades. The DSNY would also collaborate with Ukeles on a suite of performances during the 1980s titled ‘Work Ballets’. For one, Ukeles covered a garbage truck in mirrors and drove it down Madison Avenue, followed by a twirling retinue of mechanical street sweepers. The mirrored truck has been preserved by the department. Its gleaming surfaces continue to reflect the city back upon itself to this day.
Pope.L, Still of The Great White Way, 22 Miles, 5 Years, 1 Street (Segment #1: December 29, 2001), 2001-2006. Video. 6:35 min. © Pope.L. Courtesy of the artist and Mitchell-Innes & Nash, New York
Crawls
1978-ongoing
Skaters are part of a unique group of people, in that our many trials and errors take place in public, on the street. For the most part, we’re upright. We’re cruising. We move on by. But occasionally, we fall, which makes us more intimate than most with the grit and grime of the ground. Some of us even seem to like the dirty places better. Polite society, on the other hand, is often sceptical of us and the pleasure we take in our foibles. We move too freely for them. Our antics disrupt their flow, stop them from being productive. And then there are those who take it personally. They get mad, yell at us, sometimes call the cops.
It was with this same eye toward disruption that the artist Pope.L [who sadly passed away after the print version of this article was published] began his
Crawls
in 1978. Originally motivated by the complacency with which people met the unhoused, including two of Pope.L’s own family members, the self-described ‘friendliest Black artist in America’ descended to ground level and elbowed his way up city streets, sometimes in a suit, sometimes in a Superman costume. In one, he crawled up New York’s Avenue A, clutching a small flower pot he had planted with a dandelion, until some random Samaritan stopped him, having taken offence. In his first crawl down 42nd Street in Manhattan, he befuddled onlookers who could not determine if he was deranged or if it was a stunt. That one ended when Pope.L was confronted by a police officer for whom the distinction between art and altercation didn’t matter. ‘To not move at the same rhythm of the city is a form of resistance. For some people, that’s a smack in the face,’ Pope.L said of his 2019 Crawl ‘Conquest’ in the
New Yorker
.
‘What do you mean, you’re not working?
The mythology of the city is about this energy, this forward movement, but the pace I was moving was not an acceptable pace… It’s suspicious, you know?’
Pope.L, Still of The Great White Way, 22 Miles, 5 Years, 1 Street (Segment #1: December 29, 2001), 2001-2006. Video. 6:35 min. © Pope.L. Courtesy of the artist and Mitchell-Innes & Nash, New York.
Skateboards have also helped Pope.L in these performances, ironically making them more safe. He strapped one to his back for ‘The Great White Way,’ his 2001 crawl up the entire length of Broadway, terminating at his mother’s house in the Bronx (
Supreme has recently collaborated with Pope.L
, using images from this Crawl). The skateboard propelled him through intersections more quickly, getting him out of the way of eager New York drivers, though the 21-mile crawl proved too gruelling for the rest of his safety equipment. As if to really drive home the labour behind his dumbfounding performances, and his absolute commitment to the
bit, Pope.L wore through a set of knee pads.
Ashley Bickerton, Seascape: Floating Costume to Drift for Eternity II (Cowboy Suit), 1992. Enamel on milled aluminum, anodized aluminum, rope, wood, safety glass, caulk, fiberglass, nylon webbing and found object. 91¾” x 81⅛” x 221½”. © Ashley Bickerton. Courtesy the artist and Gagosian.
Susie
1980s
Perhaps you were aware of
the Monster Kid
. His name is Topo, and in 2019, you would have seen him with his shirt off, exposing the Monster Energy logos tattooed on his chest and stomach, the fluorescent green M appearing as if clawed by some horrible, taurine-fuelled demon. Topo’s tattoos are grotesque, but he is merely the most literal and twisted example of skate culture’s dependence on brands, both in terms of business and personal identity. It’s this same condition that fascinated Ashely Bickerton, whose work from the 1980s explored the increased influence of brands on everyday life. The Reagan years were motivated by a new form of individualism, which believed that a person was in charge of their own destiny—not the government, not society. As such, protections on public institutions were rolled back, and their functions quickly privatised. Excess, consumption, and hedonism defined the aesthetic sensibilities of the day. Greed was celebrated. Hostile takeovers and the image of the Strong Man replaced a belief in the public good. And not only that, but new media technologies, and a softening of international conflicts created a new opportunity for these ideas to spread throughout the world, transcending formerly entrenched boundaries. Thanks to many American brands, the corporate Ubermensch went global.
Bickerton responded by delving directly into these tactics, turning his artistic practice into its own brand to show off the grotesque effects of corporatization. Converting his signature into a logo, he transformed the mark of authenticity into a sort of corporate seal. He also designated an entire series of works with the title ‘Susie,’ resembling more a line of products than a series of artworks. Each of these works suggest functionality.
Ashley Bickerton, Tormented Self-Portrait (Susie at Arles), 1988. Synthetic polymer, bronze powder, and lacquer on wood, anodized aluminum, rubber, plastic, Formica, leather, chrome-plated steel, and padded black canvas covering. 90″ x 69″ x 18″. © Ashley Bickerton. Courtesy the artist and Gagosian.
They might resemble a crate, or a life raft. But they were in themselves useless: broad, hulking forms with dozens of superfluous straps, flaps, and grommets. Atop these quasi-functional commodities appeared a record of the various brands Bickerton had consumed over a given period of time. They ranged from local media organisations like WNYC to international conglomerates like RCA, East Village vegetarian restaurant Angelica Kitchen to condom-maker Trojan, the collection amounting to a self-portrait based on consumption, rather than the interior life, social relations, or personal history of the sitter. In the end, there’s something painfully ironic in the way Bickerton renders something so profound out of such trivialities, particularly as he juxtaposes the allure of the new with the objects’ essential uselessness. These massive, visually complex works certainly take up a lot of space in the room, but at heart, they are merely empty vessels, literally stickered over with the glossy logos of the day.
AK Burns and AL Steiner, Community Action Center, 2010. Image copyright of the artist, courtesy of Video Data Bank, School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
Community Action Center
2010
There is a part of There Skateboards’ 2022 full-length video
Ruining Skateboarding
that totally devastated me. It happened during
Chandler Burton’s part
. Until then, I found the video somewhat conventional. Solo parts replaced the resounding messiness I had found so appealing in the company’s earlier montages, suggesting that Unity, the queer skate collective that had birthed
There
, conceded to the pressures of the skateboard marketplace—team boards sell less than pro models. Or, it was just running a bit long. As Marbie Miller put it during ‘
Podium or Per Diem
’: ‘It seems kind of fried to make an hour-long skate video and make people watch it.’
But when Burton’s part came on, I realised that
Ruining Skateboarding
is far from conventional. As the video’s cheeky title suggests, the company, which exclusively sponsors queer, trans, and GNC skaters was playing on the macho tropes of the skate world, everywhere riffing on convention. But it was when Mike, Burton’s partner, appeared on screen, and made his hesitant first few pushes, that the stakes of their project really hit home for me. Ordinarily, a skater will have the opportunity to feature a friend or sibling in their part. It’s a cool way to get your unsponsored homie some exposure, or to shout out your homie that rides for a different company, sidestepping the normal rules about who can appear in a vid. But here, it was not just a friend or a colleague. It was a lover. It was Mike.
Burton was in the audience during the ‘Empathy and Texture’ panel, and he explained that Mike had only started skating as a way for them to spend time together—to explore something his partner clearly cared so much about. And there is a vicarious thrill you get from watching him tentatively balance on a board, pushing himself out of his comfort zone to impress his partner. It’s just so vulnerable. Burton also added that Mike has a degree in cinema, and that he first started to come on sessions to film his boyfriend skating. Now that Mike skates, too, they take turns filming one another. Again, this mutual gaze is a familiar configuration for any pair of skate friends, but here, as a reflection of desire and intimacy, handing the camera back and forth makes the power dynamics of the gaze more explicit, a kind of tango that Burton described as ‘so beautiful, and so frustrating.’
Clearly
Ruining Skateboarding
is much more than a skate video, but in its adoption of normative tropes of desire, and using them to reclaim some sense of intimacy, it bears a resemblance to AK Burns and AL Steiner’s video
Community Action Center
(2010). The work is basically a soft-core porn that drew upon the artists’ network of friends, colleagues, lovers and ex-lovers. Re-enacting the clichéd plot lines of erotic films, and adopting their crooked power dynamics, the amateur actors renegotiate how marginalised bodies might be imagined within a field of explicit desire, ‘using tropes,’ as the artists write, ‘for their comical value, critical consideration and historical homage.’ Somewhat hard to watch, but nonetheless powerful, the film documents the messy ways a community plays these various parts for each other—sexually, socially, psychodynamically. I might say the same of
Ruining Skateboarding
.
The Nonsite
1968
I always thought of Robert Smithson’s notion of the nonsite as the art equivalent of a skate spot. During the 1960s, he and his wife, the artist Nancy Holt, would commute from their home in Lower Manhattan to New Jersey, where they would explore the Meadowlands, the Pine Barrens, as well as to former mines, factories, and other industrial sites. There they would tour the grounds, and collect all sorts of raw material, stones, and other industrial by-products. Back in New York, Smithson would pile these materials onto mirrors, or collect them into geometric cages, and exhibit them as art, often alongside maps and photos. Some of my favourites include
Closed Mirror Square (Cayuga Salt Mine Project)
(1969), a small pyramid of crystalline rock salt, and
Map of Broken Glass (Atlantis)
(1969), a jagged, aquamarine island of glass shards.
The
nonsites
were more than just an ode to New Jersey nothingness, however. In his 1969 text, ‘Incidents of Mirror Travel in the Yucatan’, Smithson describes a trip to the eponymous peninsula, where he implanted a series of mirrors into the moist forest and beaches, as if to remind us that place is merely a matter of perception. For another photo series titled
Urination Map of the Constellation Hydra
(1969), Smithson travelled to a beach in New Jersey, and gave himself the following instructions: ‘At each star-point on the constellation the artist will urinate till a small puddle develops.’ His most compelling exploration of the subject, though, is his semi-ironic 1967 travelogue, ‘A
Tour of The Monuments of Passaic
.’ The essay recounts a bus trip Smithson takes to the titular city, where he embarks on a revelatory afternoon stroll. For him, all the new industrial public works, like steel bridges, culverts, and other signs of heavy industry suggest a state of entropy and chaos, leading him to declare New Jersey the new Rome. ‘That zero panorama seemed to contain
ruins in reverse
,’ he writes. ‘[T]hat is—all the new construction that would eventually be built. This is the opposite of the “romantic ruin” because the buildings don’t
fall
into ruin
after
they are built but rather
rise
into ruin
before
they are built.’ Such evocations of crust certainly make me think of skaters, but it’s Smithson’s descriptions of time that seem to capture our peculiar sense of displacement and apocalyptic giddiness. According to him, the future that New Jersey seemed to promise with all its new construction represented ‘A Utopia minus a bottom.’ ‘Time turns metaphors into
things
,’ he continues, echoing the kind of boredom that has long motivated the skater’s imagination, ‘and stacks them up in cold rooms, or places them in the celestial playgrounds of the suburbs.’
Dark Star Park
1979-84
Sometimes I think skaters have a mystical relationship to everyday life. One of the most beautiful and potent aspects of our imagination is the ability to draw so much significance out of the seemingly mundane, to plug ourselves into the infrastructure of the city and extract from it an almost spiritual experience. Unremarkable places like back alleys, abandoned downtowns, and suburban backlots represent not blight—or, not only blight—but rather, a kind of temple, a ritual site from which we derive great meaning. Curbs, streets, and overpasses are our places of refuge. Indeed, the material reality itself represents the wellspring of our stories. I have scaled tall fences to step foot in sacred school yards.
Unearthing the significance of disused public space, and embedding it with geological layers of meaning is the heart of Nancy Holt’s practice. She was a systems thinker, and together with her husband, Robert Smithson, she drew inspiration from the post-industrial ruins of her home state, New Jersey. Rather than literal raw materials, though, her medium had more to do with perception. In an early series titled, ‘Buried Poems’ (1969-71), she did just that, choosing remote locations according to their affinity with a respective friend. The object of the poem was then given a topographical map of the area. Her work from the 1970s expanded on her complex understanding of place. In
Sun Tunnels
(1973-76), her best known work, she arranged four concrete cylinders in the Great Basin Desert outside of Wendover, Utah, aligning them according to the solstices. Each pipe is inlaid with the pattern of holes that correspond to the constellations Draco, Perseus, Columba, and Capricorn, with the patterns operating as a multidimensional viewfinder for when these arrangements appear in the sky. When the sun is high, they also cast the constellation onto the interior of the tube. Another favourite project of mine similarly grounds our experience in towering forces, albeit much smaller in scale. For
Wild Spot
(1980), which was commissioned for the Wellesley College campus, she caged off a portion of land, where she planted wildflowers. The site is meant to remain in its natural state in perpetuity. ‘
Wild Spot
also refers to that wild, uneducable, untamed zone in the centre of ourselves,’ Holt said of the work.
While these projects consider the personal in relationship to the broad-ranging landscape, Holt never lost track of the big picture, always reconsidering what the artist’s role was in relation to society. Indicative of her unique approach were the texts that she often wrote to accompany her works, many of which not only document her process, but also pay respect to the many craftspeople, curators, and other labourers who contributed to the realisation of the work. In this respect,
Dark Star Park
(1979-84) represents a major turning point. The project continued her interest in astronomy and deep time—she was ‘quoting the cosmos,’ as the Holt/Smithson Foundation puts it. But this time, she was no longer running the show, and instead had to work closely with local government, a position that involved her not only in the exigencies of her own design, but also in the city planning surrounding the site. As Holt writes, the project represents a ‘merging [of] historical time with the cyclical time of the sun,’ but behind the scenes, the long term collaboration exposed her to the many ways that an artist might intervene in the civic systems that condition our everyday life. ‘My concern with the value of making art that is also functional and necessary in society,’ she wrote following her many years working on what would become
Dark Star Park
, ‘has been reinforced.’
‘[A] blighted urban site with the buried remains of a gas station and a warehouse, surrounded by broken asphalt, giant weeds, collapsed fencing, fragments of glass, rusty steel, and decaying wood,’ Holt writes, describing the site that would become
Dark Star Park
as essentially a skater’s paradise. Though skaters would likely be drawn to many of the same places that inspired Holt, it’s her attention to infrastructure that would make her later work seem so compelling to our sort. For the latter part of her career, she turned that same lofty grasp of the cosmos back on the basic, life-sustaining systems on earth. Indeed, infrastructure became a major interest of hers, and she began to incorporate HVAC systems, pipelines, and plumbing into large scale installations. For
Electrical System (For Thomas Edison)
(1982) she ran electrical conduit throughout the John Weber Gallery, making the lighting the subject of the exhibition itself. For
Pipeline
(1986), Holt travelled to Alaska, where she ran leaking oil pipes into the gallery.
Again, as her work evolved after
Dark Star Park
, Holt was especially happy when she could make both artistic and practical contributions to the community, as in the public sculpture
Catch Basin (
1982). A massive pool was dug into St. James Park in Toronto, with various clay troughs and channels cutting through the surrounding grass lawn. On an aesthetic level, the work evokes ancient aqueducts and canals, tying the present to the ancient past. But it also solved a drainage problem. By the 1980s, Holt’s public projects were getting noticed, and she was asked to convert a decommissioned landfill in the Meadowlands into a massive earthwork. She proposed
Sky Mound
(1988-2008), a massive ritual ground complete with a pond to support migrating birds, viewing stations to see the stars, measuring sticks to track the rate of decomposition, and torches that burned methane created by the trash. Though the site proved too volatile for anything but the most practical interventions, forcing Holt to eventually abandon the project, the skater in me delights in the monument it has become. Indeed, I love that millions of commuters unwittingly see
Sky Mound
every year, and that the trash panorama continues to frustrate even the best systems—artistic, metaphorical, scientific, governmental—with which we attempt to contain it.
Arakawa and Madeline Gins, Site of Reversible Destiny—Yoro Park, detail of Reversible Destiny Office, interior, 1993-95. Public park. Total area: 195,000 sq. ft. Yoro, Gifu Prefecture, Japan. Photo courtesy: The Site of Reversible Destiny Yoro Park. © 1997 Estate of Madeline Gins. Reproduced with permission of the Estate of Madeline Gins.
The Site of Reversible Destiny
1995
The day I spent wandering through Arakawa and Gins’
Site of Reversible Destiny
at Yoro Park in Gifu, Japan is the closest I have ever come to skateboarding without actually stepping foot on a board. It had to do with a sense of play, and the artists’ belief that architecture could help reinvigorate the senses, a process they believed would reverse the effects of ageing. ‘Death is old fashioned,’ they wrote in their book,
Mechanisms of Meaning
.
As for
The Site of Reversible Destiny
, just imagine a ‘90s Nickelodeon TV set mixed with old street maps, mazes, a water park, an ancient temple, a spaceship, and all sorts of antiquarian charts and graphs. Like the many obstacles at a skatepark, various structures populate the 4.5-acre site, with names like ‘Imaging Navel’’ and ‘Critical Resemblance House.’ Most of them possess a maze-like interior, which bifurcates all sorts of domestic furnishings like mattresses, bathtubs, stoves, and even a desk lamp. Adding to the uncanny feel of these fractured perspectives is the frequent mirroring of these objects, which pervades the experience with a sense of déjà vu. To suddenly see a toilet on the ceiling—the same toilet I had found in some corner of the Critical Resemblance House’s intricate labyrinth—really got me.
Arakawa and Madeline Gins, Site of Reversible Destiny—Yoro Park, detail of Critical Resemblance House, 1993-95. Public park. Total area: 195,000 sq. ft. Yoro, Gifu Prefecture, Japan. Photo courtesy: The Site of Reversible Destiny Yoro Park. © 1997 Estate of Madeline Gins. Reproduced with permission of the Estate of Madeline Gins.
Elsewhere, navigating the park can often feel like solving a riddle with your body. Footpaths snake throughout the undulating landscape, seldom leading where you think they might, and even plunging you into sudden darkness. Maps of Tokyo, New York, and Paris are overlaid upon the landscape’s concrete surfaces, but in spite of any familiarity those cities may bring to your experience, you may still find yourself, as I did, walking down ‘Not To Disappear Street.’ If I had to compare it to anything, I might say that the place is the physical incarnation of skating switch. There’s just such a bizarre relationship it creates to the most familiar sensations, that you feel like you’re doing something, and watching yourself do it at the same time. In the same way that learning a new trick unlocks a novel understanding of your body, your experience of the world takes on a new, more intuitive vibrancy—you don’t just know something, you feel it. Time assumes a new richness, too. And, as if this stupefying new realisation were not enough, everything is painted AstroTurf green, canary yellow, cadmium red, and Pepto-Bismol pink.
Dena Yago, Big Fish Eat Little Fish (detail), 2020. Image courtesy the artist and JTT Gallery, New York.
Content Industrial Complex
2018
One of my main goals for this talk was to help frame skateboarding as a form of creative labour. I know that designation might take the fun out of something most people consider to be their escape from everyday life, but framing skating as a form of work restores a sense of agency—agency that has largely been leached out of skate culture by the extractive forces of social media, professionalisation, and the decentralisation of both skate media and skate communities in general. Forces that have increased the competition for people’s attention, creating a system in which most people will happily contribute their efforts simply in exchange for attention and clout. Skaters once held the tools of production in their very hands. They merely existed for one another. But now, someone else is in charge.
It’s this precarious relationship to making a living, and keeping the independent spirit of their craft alive, that skaters and contemporary artists share. In both fields, we enjoy the privilege to do what we love, but we also juggle a million jobs to do it. Labour happens 24 hours a day, and opportunity increasingly depends on social capital, rather than quantifiable skills. While both art and skateboarding have always been fickle, with success sometimes eluding people during their lifetimes—or, say, during their periods of peak productivity—both are filled with people who share the dim hope of breaking even as creative labourers. Marbie Miller summed up the situation quite well during ‘
Podium or Per Diem
’ at Slow Impact. Asked by Krux team manager and former pro skater Alex White what success looks like, Miller replied, ‘Having enough money. Having health insurance. And, like, a car. I don’t have any of those.’ After hearing her own reply, she laughed, presumably at the absurdity of having none of these basic human needs met.
While the skate world seems a bit doomed in this respect, perhaps owing to its longstanding distrust of collective organisation and institutions, artists have been trying to find a solution to precarity for quite some time, with the artist Dena Yago challenging the art world’s increasing commercialism by demystifying the relationship between art and work. (Full disclosure, she’s also my wife.) Early in her career, Yago was a founding member of K-Hole, an art collective-cum-trend forecasting group. Their work took the form of well researched trend reports which they distributed as PDFs online, sometimes partnering with brands and art museums to create USB-related tchotchkes. Their most famous edition was 2013’s ‘Youth Mode: A Report on Freedom’, in which they coined the expression Normcore, an influential notion that at first described blending in as an early form of online resistance. It persists as the viral naming convention for every ensuing fashion trend that has its roots in some kind of online subculture (i.e. cottagecore, zizmorecore, core core, etc.). As a solo-artist, Yago’s relationship to corporate culture has also supported her work conceptually, as she translates her experience as a brand strategist into a biting brand of visual poetry—a kind of report from the inner-workings of soft power. ‘Compressed by the weight of all those hats we’ve been made to wear for so long,’ reads a block of text in her artwork
The Procession
(2021), a multi-panelled dressing screen that tells a storybook allegory of maker culture. ‘We’ve turned the sorcerer, apprentice, and parade of tools into one.’
Dena Yago, The Procession, 2021. Image courtesy the artist and JTT Gallery, New York.
Yago is also a writer, and in a trilogy of essays she published in
e-flux journal
—’On Ketamine and Added Value,’ ‘Content Industrial Complex,’ and ‘The Wall Stays in The Picture: Destination Murals in Los Angeles’—she uses her insider’s perspective to illustrate the ways brands instrumentalise artists through social media, describing how these corporate entities seek a certain authenticity from partnerships in exchange for greater visibility and often short-term, gig-based support—or worse, for mere attention. ‘Never entirely innocent,’ Yago writes in her pivotal essay, ‘Content Industrial Complex,’ in part decrying the art world’s blissful ignorance, and impractical means of resistance, ‘the role of the artist in these negotiations has shifted radically towards complicity. Producing content in the form of artworks and social-media posts, the cultural influencer functions as a highly valued asset for brands.’ The point, for Yago, is to realise the lack of agency that the art world has in these situations, in part to help them recognise when they are being exploited, and also to help them realise the power they do have to find agency in their corporate dealings—dealings upon which creative professionals increasingly rely. This same point was echoed by
Marbie Miller
during the ‘
Podium or Per Diem
’ panel. Asked about the tokenization of her identity within the skate industry, Miller spoke to the challenges of making a living on social platforms, particularly for queer skaters. ‘Shoe companies only pay people when it’s Pride Month,’ she observed. ‘If you see me doing any dumb shit on Instagram,’ she continued, decrying the compromises she has to make in order to subsist as a professional skater, ‘It’s for a check.’

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 17, 2020
Pete Thompson: ’93 til Interview
Joey Bast, frontside flip, San Francisco, 1995. Ph. Pete Thompson
If you picked an American skate magazine in the nineties or early two thousands, chances are you saw some of Pete Thompson’s photographs in it. Pete shot for
Slap
and then
Transworld
from the early ‘90s all the way up to 2004. Why am I telling you this? Well Pete has put together a book entitled
’93 til
with a curated selection of unseen and lesser-seen images from his time shooting skateboarding. The book is filled with so many legendary skaters it’s too hard to list them all, but think Stevie Williams, Jamie Thomas, Tom Penny, Donny Barley, Kenny Hughes… You get the idea. Now full disclosure here: I grew up in North Carolina with Pete – we’ve known each other for decades. So the ‘interview’ we did really just felt like a chat about the good ol’ days amongst two old friends. Hope it’ll suffice…
Interview by Will Harmon
One of the best things about this book is the candid shots of the skaters, not even skating. It seems like you really made a conscious effort back then to shoot this stuff. Knowing that 95% of the time these photos wouldn’t get published in the skate magazines of that era, what was your motivation for this?
Pete Thompson: It was a little bit of a mishap actually, I didn’t really intentionally shoot non-skate photos, but at the same time I think it was probably just driven by my curiosity of photography. I always just wanted to be shooting something; kinda a little bit of an obsession I think. And obviously with skateboarding, back then (early nineties), the tricks a lot of times were few and far between. Including the fact that you couldn’t necessarily shoot a photo of some tricks; it was more of a filming thing than stills.
Well shooting a sequence back then on film… Film was more precious. You had to be strategic.
Yeah obviously film was expensive, but you couldn’t see what you were doing. So sometimes you’d get sequences back and they just looked terrible, even if the guy made it, ha ha. I also think that when I would leave North Carolina to go shoot photos in the Northeast I was always around people that… Well it was a different world for me, as opposed to if I’d grown up in a big city and if I had always hung around with a group of guys, the novelty of it, of being able to be around skateboarders wouldn’t have been there quite as much I think and maybe that was why. It was like ‘ok here’s my chance!’ I had left North Carolina and I was travelling for a week and I just wanted to shoot as many photos as I could.
And I remember once you told me you’d shoot a whole skate sequence and then you would have one or two shots left on the roll and then that’s when you’d take a lifestyle type photo. Kind of not really thinking about it…
This is something that just doesn’t happen anymore because most people don’t shoot with film. But when you shoot film you’re stuck with that roll of film in your camera. If you’re shooting black and white and you want to change to colour, you got to get through the rest of the roll. So you had to snap the rest of the roll away and if you were shooting sequences and the roll only had four more frames left, you’re obviously not going to try to shoot a sequence, so there’s four frames that you could shoot of whatever is around you. And I remember seeing other photographers just aim their cameras at the ground and burn through those 4-5 last frames. And I’m sure I did it too, but I also would point the camera at whatever was in front of me and then take a few photos… And looking back at those few photos I sort of beat myself up knowing that I could have made more of an effort to take a decent photo with those last few frames.
Yeah…
Also film was so precious. You used your film to shoot skating. And if you were shooting non-skating photos with your film it was like eating away into your ability to keep shooting skating in a way. It was irrational to think that, but that’s kind of how it felt, ‘ok don’t use this precious film for anything else because you need it for when someone is going to do something really good.’
Pepe Martinez, Washington DC, 1993. Ph. Pete Thompson
And so putting together this book, have you used any photos that were maybe the last few frames from a roll and at the time you didn’t think much about, but know they’re some of your favourite photos?
Oh for sure, absolutely! The very first picture in the book of everybody standing around (getting kicked out) and talking to the cop, that photo… That’s the only photo. That’s the only pic of that on the entire roll. I didn’t snap off three or four frames, I just took one picture. And sometimes I look at those situations where I shot one photo and think, ‘God I’m just so glad I got that one frame!’ and then other times you see the one photo and you’re like, ‘ah if I would have just shot three or four more frames’ it could have been in better focus…
Or a better angle…
Yeah, but again that goes back to people in that period of time not necessarily being too hyped on having their portrait taken. It just didn’t seem like it was cool…
Except for in (Washington) DC though, ha ha! Remember how stoked they were to shoot ‘chill photos’?
(Laughs) Yeah chill shots! Yeah but I think that speaks more to the scene in DC having this underlying sense of humour… They didn’t take themselves as seriously as a lot of other scenes that were happening in big cities.
Washington DC crew at Pulaski, 1995. Ph. Pete Thompson
The sarcasm!
Yeah those guys (Andy Stone, Eben Jahnke, Pepe Martinez, Jim Gordy, Pooch, etc.)… I think that’s the reason I had such a connection with them ‘cause they had such a rad sense of humour. Everything was funny and that was the goal of the group: even if you weren’t that great of a skater if you cracked jokes at the perfect time and made everybody laugh you were part of the crew.
Ok well moving on, the photo in this of Ricky Oyola, you somehow managed to get a pic of him at what looks like a skatepark and wearing a helmet. How did this come about? And can you tell us about your experiences shooting Ricky?
The photo of Ricky is actually at the Encinitas YMCA for the NSA Am contest in 1993. What was interesting about that particular contest was that it felt like it was the first contest where the best skaters from the East Coast, that were able to make the trip to California, all came out there. I think 1993 was the breaking out point for East Coast street skaters. I mean before that there was (Kris) Markovich and Andy Howell, but ’93 really felt like East Coast skaters started to figure out a way to get to California.
Ricky Oyola, backside tailslide at the NSA Finals in Encinitas California, 1993. Ph. Pete Thompson
I think Huf (Keith Hufnagel), Keenan (Milton) and Gino (Iannucci) all went out there that year.
Yeah and they were getting attention from what was happening on the West Coast. And then later that year was the Triple Crown contests (in New York and Connecticut) where all the West Coast pros came over to the East Coast. So it was weird at that particular contest at the Y… I was in California and I knew 20 or 30 dudes there, which was weird as every time I’d go out to Cali I didn’t really know that many people. So I think that was the first time I’d ever met Ricky. He was one of the names that guys on the West Coast sort of knew. He was one of a handful of East Coast guys at the time who’d made a lot of noise and had gotten a lot of recognition.
He had a little
part in the first Spitfire video
sometime around then. I dunno if this was after this comp, but anyways he was skating around a contest in that part and you could immediately tell his skating stood out.
Yeah he was consistent too, which made him stand out. So when I saw him at the contest I asked him if I could shoot a photo of that backtail… And it was a point in time in skateboarding where just being able to shoot a still of someone not trying to flip their board or do some type of technical thing was a little bit rare. Everyone back then was trying to double flip and triple flip…
Pressure flip…
Yeah doing all this hard stuff and then here comes Ricky and he’s just got this solid, clean fast backtail. He did it like every time so I was like, ‘ah cool I can just shoot this quick photo and give a little love to the East Coast while I’m on the West Coast.’ Everyone had to wear pads back then in contests, so it’s not that weird that he’s wearing a helmet.
It was just the rules of contests back then.
You had to. You know a lot of people would just take an elbow pad and wrap it around their ankle like, ‘alright I’m wearing pads!’
Ha ha! I seem to remember someone strapping a kneepad on top of their hat and calling it ‘a helmet’!
Yeah exactly, just goofy stuff. But that in itself encompasses where skateboarding was at back then. You had skateparks, but they were extremely rare, and they made you wear pads. And the pros and all the skaters that were at these contests wore pads… That was it, there wasn’t a battle or a fight to not wear them; that maybe came a few years later, but it’s pretty crazy today that there are all these parks and you don’t have to wear pads. But yeah it was like mandatory back then. You weren’t skating that course unless you were wearing pads and a helmet. And the fact that Ricky is wearing pads and a helmet goes to show you how seldom it was that you had an opportunity to skate a skatepark. There was no alternative.
Jamie Thomas, Northampton, UK, 1995. Ph. Pete Thompson
It was really a different time in 1993.
Yeah and you couldn’t be like, ‘well screw this, I’m going to go skate a plaza in Encinitas, California, or I’ll go skate this park that won’t make me wear a helmet,’ there just weren’t those options. And in order for you to take that trip to California and really make it matter, you had to skate. So there was really no choice. And at that point I don’t think that Ricky and that street skating movement from Philly had really started to gel yet. You know that rebellious tight-knit group of guys in Philly that were really breaking all the rules and doing things their way… I don’t think that rebellious side of Ricky had been seen yet. I don’t want to judge whether he was rebellious or not at that point, but it didn’t seem like the Ricky that a lot of people ended up becoming familiar with. I don’t feel like he was quite that guy yet. He was still trying to come up and make the most of it…
I mean he was an Am. This was an Am contest after all…
Yeah he wasn’t pro. I feel like he may have had a lot more to prove at that point, and wearing a helmet in order to prove it wasn’t a big deal then.
Ok well I want to jump to the following year, 1994, where you went to Philly for the first time to shoot Ricky and his crew. Can you tell us about that experience?
So by that point in 1994, things had changed drastically. From ’93 to ’94 or even ’91 to ’92, like what was happening was changing so fast. It didn’t matter if you looked at videos or magazines, you were still behind if you weren’t in California. Things were changing by leaps and bounds so by ’94 I think that Love Park Philadelphia scene was really heating up. And people were looking at skateboarding in a much different way when you talk about Philly. What the philosophy of street skating and what street skating meant and what was important were different, much different for the guys who were in Philly at the time. And I feel they really tried to band together and form a movement, and they definitely did as history has showed us.
’93 til book, 2020.
Yeah I agree.
So before I went up to Philly I had seen maybe one article in
Thrasher
about Love Park and the article was definitely Ricky heavy. I think he had more photos in that article than anyone else and he had quotes and stuff like that. It was him and Fred Gall, Jerry Fisher, Serge (Trudnowski) and guys like that… So when I saw that article I was like, ‘I’d love to go up there and shoot photos,’ that was what my philosophy was: I had to go wherever I had to go to shoot photos. And so I remember calling Ricky up, obviously on the landline phone, because there weren’t any cellphones, and I said, ‘alright well I’m gonna come up and I’ll be there on Saturday blah blah blah…’ and he just kinda goes, ‘alright well leave your car on the outside of the city and just skate in.’ and I was like, ‘what?’ ha ha… I was like, ‘is he serious?’ I couldn’t actually tell if he was joking or not, but then when I got there it was like, ‘oh shit, I’m going to have to figure out how I’m gonna keep up with these guys!’ (Laughs)
Ha ha, so good…
It’s sort of like an athlete that trains and does the same thing over and over again and everyday, and then if you’re not used to it, it’s torture. And it’s especially torture if you’re on the East Coast in the summertime: it’s like a swamp! I mean even if I didn’t have this big heavy camera bag on my back I still would have had a hard time keeping up with these guys. It was like skate the city… Hit this spot for five minutes, get kicked out, cruise over this way, slappy a curb, pole-jam, weave in and out of traffic, and it was a language of skateboarding that I hadn’t really seen before and I was completely unprepared for.
Yeah…
Unprepared as somebody who rode a skateboard, because I skated for all those years, and then also unprepared because I’m carrying all this gear around and then, ‘how do I shoot a photo of this?’ Nothing against those guys, they were doing something that was so new and so different than everybody else. And I got halfway through the day, drenched in sweat, completely out of breath trying to keep up and I remember Ricky looking at me going: ‘Dude, do you need all that gear?’ Ha ha… It was a huge backpack and looking back, he was right. For this type of skateboarding there was no opportunity to use all the equipment that I had. You just didn’t have time to set it all up.
Kareem Campbell, switch frontside flip, Münster, Germany, 1995. Ph. Pete Thompson
Yeah because they would hit spots pretty quickly and then just keep going right?
Oh yeah you had no time to set up. Even if someone had something they wanted to shoot immediately I couldn’t set any lights up, we would be kicked out and then be 15 blocks away in like five minutes. So that was pretty disorienting for me, because I had always done things in a specific way when it came to shooting photos. In addition to that, a lot of the stuff they did was stuff that
looked really sick on video
. Video did their style of skateboarding the most justice. And I think those videos that Dan Wolfe did, the
Eastern Exposure
videos; those vids really drove home the brand of skateboarding that they had cultivated.
Yeah totally. It was just too hard for you to capture that in stills.
Yeah I didn’t think I was able to do what Dan Wolfe did for that particular group of guys. Stills just didn’t show the energy and the rawness, the speed, etc.… Not to say that people didn’t do that type of skating before, you know you look at Julien Stranger…
Yeah well the Philly guys connected spots across the street from each other, around a corner and then down another street…
Yeah the whole attitude of those guys and that brand of skating can be summed up with: just keep moving.
Yeah I remember there was a thing where everyone would meet up at
Sub-Zero
(old Philly skate shop) off South Street and there was a line to take all the way to Love Park and they knew all these things to hit on the way. So it was one continuous line from Sub-Zero to Love.
Yeah it was almost compulsory. It was like, ‘here’s how we start the day. You can either try to hang with us and try and push yourself or you can do your own brand of skating.’
So the run would be from Sub-Zero to Love, and when you finally got to Love it must have been nice to finally stop pushing and take your heavy bag off for a bit.
Yeah you have no idea! By the end of the first day with Ricky and those guys I was a disaster. I was wiped the fuck out. But I’m sure a lot of people had that same experience, it wasn’t like I was the only one that couldn’t hang. What they were doing was really intense and I was really unprepared for it, but when we got to Love I was like, ‘oh here’s that spot that I’d seen in
Thrasher
’ and a bunch of other dudes were there and that’s the first time I met
Stevie (Williams)
.
Stevie Williams, Philadelphia, 1995. Ph. Pete Thompson
Yeah Stevie was in a totally different crew than Ricky’s right?
Totally. I think Stevie’s crew was much more in line with what I knew and the culture of street skating that I was familiar with.
Well it was similar to the scene you knew at Pulaski in DC.
Exactly. Guys show up, they start to trickle in shortly after noon and people skate and chill, grab a bite to eat, drink a 40 and sit there and kinda just talk shit. And obviously to me that felt more familiar and like I said that was the first time I met Stevie, the first time I met Jimmy Chung, Bam (Margera), etc. And Stevie was like little, like 13.
He was Lil’ Stevie!
Yeah.
And so did you shoot photos with Stevie then or film stuff?
I did a little bit of both and that’s kind of what was different about Stevie. I thought, ‘here’s a guy I can concentrate on and shoot specific tricks’ and it was much different to what Ricky and those guys were doing. So like I said when I left North Carolina I just really wanted to shoot photos so with Stevie, when I would show up on the subsequent trips up to Philly Stevie was always like, ‘yo, you wanna shoot a photo? Let’s film a line; let’s get some stuff done…’ It always felt like he had specific tricks he wanted to shoot, he had focus and he wanted to take care of business in that way. So I would end up spending more time with Stevie, Jimmy Chung, Bam and those guys in like ’94 and ’95. So that led me to having more photos of Stevie and Jimmy Chung than the guys that put that East Coast Philly style stamp on skateboarding like Ricky, Fred Gall and Matt Reason. I don’t want it to sound like I was abandoning those other guys, but they were so dedicated to documenting their skating with Dan Wolfe and I think their skating then really lent itself better to video.
Stevie Williams, switch Spanish grind, San Francisco, 1997. Ph. Pete Thompson
Ok going back to the book, you have a lot of Tom Penny photos from 1995, which was a really incredible moment in his career. What was it like shooting him then?
Tom was just cruising along to his own internal rhythm. I think when you watched him skate you sort of had a glimpse of what was to come. You couldn’t deny it, you were like, ‘this is what everyone is trying to do with street skating: do tricks, catch them, be able to do them on different kinds of terrain and be consistent.’ And I think most people looked at him like, ‘goddamnit, how did this dude figure this out?’ (Laughs) And to top it off he made it look like he wasn’t even trying.
Well the old story goes that him and (Geoff) Rowley would look at videos from the US and thought all the pros were doing all this tricks first try, so they got so consistent.
Yeah Geoff mentioned that to me…
So when they came to the US everyone was shocked they could do all these gnarly tricks so quickly.
Yeah and I think to build on that, and this happened on the East Coast too, when you opened a magazine during 1991 to ’94 there was definitely moments where you would stop, pause and look at a trick and just be confused. ‘Wait a minute; hold on, how did he get his board there? How did he land this? Which direction is he going?
Kenny Hughes, frontside bluntslide, Baltimore, 1996. Ph. Pete Thompson
Yeah that happened to me the first time I saw Kris Markovich’s interview in
Transworld
.
And that speaks to how much street skating was changing then. Today when you look at Instagram or a still you know what’s happening. There’s no confusion. And this is maybe the best way to explain it to kids who weren’t around back then: everything was so new that you could literally open a magazine, see a picture of a guy doing something, and not even know what he was doing. I mean imagine that. That experience is gone. And not only is it gone it only lasted a few years.
And on that same note, some of the skaters that were the biggest guys of 1992, someone like Chris Fissel, by the time ’94 or ’95 came along they were gone.
By the time ’93 came along they were gone, ha ha! It’s good that you bring up that name…
Sorry Chris… (If you’re reading this)
Yeah and understanding that that’s how things were unfolding, you have to then understand how many skateboarders there were who really made huge contributions to skateboarding and you could even go so far as to characterising it as sacrifices made for skateboarding. These guys made contributions, but their sacrifices were even more profound. Like you said, a lot of these dudes were hot in ’93 and gone in ’94. They helped lay the groundwork of what street skating is today, but the side effect was that they were rendered obsolete fairly quickly. And it sucks for those dudes and maybe there’s a few like that in the book that I sort of had that thought in mind with. Like maybe this guy broke through a lot of boundaries that needed to be shattered and unfortunately they became casualties of those years. Skateboarding shed its skin multiple times through ’91,’92,’93 and 1994. Along with the Ricky Oyola’s and the dudes that established these new movements in skateboarding there were guys that were equally as dedicated who have been forgotten in large part.
Yeah I always think about a lot of the H-Street guys. A lot of them didn’t make it through to 1995.
The conventional wisdom then was that your career was going to last three years. And if you were lucky, like a Mike Carroll or a Geoff Rowley and were still around…
That was rare.
Super rare. And I was thinking about the guys that transitioned out of that ‘89/’90 and into ‘91/’92 that were really pivotal and there’s only like three dudes that really helped bridge that gap: Danny Way, Colin McKay and Alphonzo Rawls. They were the first vert dudes that did street tricks on vert and also they were the first vert dudes that skated street and looked good doing it.
Yeah that’s true.
I mean I’m taking the Bones Brigade out of this equation completely because they were on another planet, those guys don’t apply because they are beyond legend status. But Alph, Danny and Colin deserve a lot of credit for carrying skateboarding through 1990. That was the breakoff point in my opinion. That was a big jump to get to where the rebirth of street skating occurred in a lot of ways. But anyways I’m rambling…
But even regarding that, we can bring it back to Tom Penny who could actually skate vert as well. He could skate everything… I mean he did kickflip indys on vert! And isn’t there a special edition of your book with extra Penny photos?
All of the photos in the special edition version of Tom were all taken in 1995. So the special edition version of the book is the first run of the book, which is 2500 copies. The limited edition version will be available in Europe and 20 other countries, but you have to get it at a skate shop.
So not in a bookstore?
We’re keeping the book out of the traditional book trade for 30 days. So the best way is to get it at the skate shop. After that it’ll be in bookstores, but not the special edition with the extra Tom photos.
Tom Penny, switch backside tailslide, Tampa, 1995. Ph. Pete Thompson
And let’s talk about Penny!
The photos of Tom from that time, I was also filming too at that point, so I have Hi-8 tapes of him skating in ’95 as well. I think Tom at that period of time was just showing everyone what was possible. He was showing everyone what the next chapter in skateboarding would be. Hanging out with him was a complete blessing and I was so lucky to be a part of not just Northampton, Amsterdam and Munster in ’95, but being able to get in the van with the Birdhouse and Flip guys and cruise around Germany and Denmark.
Yeah we’re going to upload the semi-raw edit from your old Hi-8 tape from that trip to coincide with this.
One anecdote from that trip that I can remember was that (Andrew) Reynolds was with us, and he may have been maybe 18 or 19, and to this day Reynolds just loves Penny. But at the time, being in the van with both of them, Reynolds was just sort of, like, you could just tell how much in awe he was of Tom. I mean we all were, but Tom would do something just random, maybe someone filmed it or maybe no one filmed it, but he would land stuff and Andrew would just stand there looking completely baffled going, ‘he… He’s the best! He’s the best!’ I can visualise and hear him saying that still because he was just so excited to be able to see Tom skate and be around him.
Just being there to witness that greatness in person…
I think in a lot of ways being around Tom and Andrew during that summer for two weeks… I think Tom in some funny way sort of turned Andrew back into a skate rat. Like Andrew was just as excited as a kid is to see their favourite pro skater at a demo today.
Even though he was sponsored and on the same trip with Tom…
Yeah and at the time Andrew was super sick as well, but watching Tom inadvertently turned Andrew into this kid… It was rad to see Penny’s effect on Reynolds, especially considering how huge and prolific of a skater Andrew turned out to be.
Yeah so I wanted to bring up the fact that often in the ‘90s the skate photographer that shot the photo would then take out a video camera and film the trick after. I mean that’s how you have the video footage from that Birdhouse/Flip tour. You were there filming but also shooting photos; that’s kind of unheard of these days to have the filmer be the photographer as well. How important did filming become to you as opposed to photography
?
Well filming was a little different to how it is now because street skating was at the point it was at. There were still a lot of kinks being worked out with street skating, so having the still photo was great, but you needed the video as well. There were video grabs (in magazines) happening back then as well. And for some reason I don’t feel like there were that many dedicated filmers back then. I’m not sure why… I don’t even think there was a filmer with us on that Birdhouse/Flip tour.
You became the de facto filmer!
I mean I may be wrong and this is terrible, but I honestly can’t remember there being a filmer there. But I was fortunate to be able to film Tom and Andrew because those guys landed shit all the time. Also I’d hand the camera to someone and have them film it while I shot the photo, which kind of had a cool look in itself if someone doesn’t exactly film it perfectly. It sort of lends itself to that kind of voyeuristic, amateur, secret footage kind of feel you know?
Yeah! Ok so for the majority of your book, the photos were shot on film. Can you talk a little bit about how you archived all these photos and the process of scanning them in?
The archiving process is in some ways part of the motivation for actually doing the book. That’s part of it, the other main part of it is while you’re archiving and you’re looking at images you shot, some that are 20 years old, you start to look at these images differently. You see stuff that you didn’t see before and things that you didn’t think were important back then, you sort have this different point of view today. You look at a portrait after 20 years and sometimes for me I’d realise that it was a really powerful image. It’s a powerful image of someone that went on to do X, Y and Z. Or it’s a powerful image of someone who passed away who’s no longer with us. Or it has some kind of quality to it that captures people’s imagination in a way that you didn’t really have that objective 20 years ago.
Toad, frontside wallride, San Francisco, 1998. Ph. Pete Thompson
Yeah I see.
The objective 20 years ago was just to take a sick skate photo that will get skaters excited. And that became the goal of shooting skateboarding. Like shoot a photo and make everyone who sees that photo a) understand what’s happening, b) feel like they’re there and c) just be excited and want to go out and skate. So you take that formula for what you’re trying to do as a photographer in the beginning and you contrast that with how you feel about photography today. And that’s where I think this book starts to sort of materialise in terms of what the intention behind it is and how you want to communicate that era in a different way.
So archiving all these photos years later inspired you to make the book?
I think the main thing was my perspective changing, but it was also just getting everything together. Because I had some of my stuff in New York, I had a bunch of stuff in my friend’s basement in Northern California and then I had a bunch of stuff at my dad’s house in North Carolina. Everything was all over the place and as I sort of started to have that shift in perspective in the images I became more and more motivated. I was also interested to see what I was missing getting all my hands on that stuff and sort of digging through and starting to pick out imagery that said something – besides just: oh this is a great skate photo.
The thing about skate photos in terms of looking back like this is that you have to be careful… You have to be careful which images you choose because if there’s a 20-year-old looking at this book, they might not immediately understand why a photo is important, because if it looks too much like a photo that exists today, it doesn’t register. It can’t register; they weren’t a part of those years. So I was careful in choosing skate photos that were either simple: no flash, black and white, long lens and sort of a nod to a reportage feel. I felt like those images were the ones that would sort of transcend all of the years, all of the shifts and all of the ways skateboarding has adapted and changed. So that was really important to me in terms of the skate photos and the portraits were trying to show some sort of energy there. Those are the photos (the portraits and incidentals) that I wish I would’ve spent a little more time shooting a couple more frames of.
Yeah like we talked about earlier…
Yeah there’s a photo of Jaya Bonderov in the book, just a portrait of him looking over his shoulder into the camera, and when I found that photo digging around in the archives… I feel like that photo is really honest, but it’s just him looking into the camera. And looking back I wish I had spent a little more time shooting portraits.
Kenny Reed, frontside noseslide, San Francisco, 1999. Ph. Pete Thompson
Ok regarding archiving as well, I wanted to ask you about lost photos. Were there any photos you wanted to include in this book that are just M.I.A. now?
Oh yeah there’s lots of stuff I don’t have. There’s even stuff that I don’t have that I don’t know that I don’t have. When I worked for Transworld Grant (Brittain) would send everyone their photos back after they were scanned and in the magazine, which I’m really grateful for. Sometimes a photo by Atiba (Jefferson) or (Mike (O’Meally) or something would slip into my file when they got sent back. So when I was going through all these images I found maybe a dozen or two images that belonged to somebody else. And knowing how important having all of my photos is to me, I was like, ‘dude I gotta send these back!’ I sent stuff back to Lance Dawes, Gabe Morford and a bunch of these guys because once you start digging through and you organise stuff, which is a really arduous process, you get this feeling of like, every sheet of photos that is missing or hidden could just have a goldmine on it. And so in realising that I knew I had to really get these photos back to these guys. These photos need to get back to the people who shot them, and this is something I’ve recently learned how important that is.
Do you keep up with skateboarding photography in 2020?
A little bit, on Instagram and stuff… There’s some really strong imagery going on in skateboarding right now. And I think there’s a little bit of a push to incorporate certain parts of architectural photography… You know when you talk about stepping back and seeing a sense of place, looking at patterns and the way lines convert or the shapes of your surroundings…
John Rattray, frontside noseslide, Lake Forest, California, 2000. Ph. Pete Thompson
Yeah there probably wasn’t much of that in the ‘90s (skateboard photography)!
Yeah that wasn’t part of it much at all, but just the way that the shapes of the architecture and the buildings and surrounding elements fill the frame… I think it’s the obvious reaction to having all those years of the fisheye up in everyone’s face, which was a really great technique, but years and years of that being predominantly what you’d see, there had to be a break. A shift in that was inevitable. I think people like (Jonathan) Mehring sort of embraced that perspective in a really impactful way. I mean the guys today have an advantage, which is they’re shooting digital, ha ha. And they can shoot at higher than 250th of a second, in terms of the flashing speed, which you have no idea how liberating that probably is. Sorry for being technical, but there’s a lot of images that I see now where people are able to shoot 1500th of a second outdoors with a strobe and it looks fucking insane! And I’ve definitely had a few moments where like, ‘fuck! I wish I could have done that back in ’95!’ The technology just wasn’t there for that.
But at the same time that’s what gives photos from then that special look because there wasn’t that technology.
Yeah, you had to know your craft to get photos back then. I think knowing your craft today is also important, because skateboarding photography has changed so you can’t really compare the two, but yeah not being able to see the picture for a couple days after you shot it… That’ll make you lose your mind! (Laughs) That’ll add some stress to your soul.
Richie Belton and Corey Duffel, Tampa, 2001. Ph. Pete Thompson
So do you want talk a little about stopping skateboard photography in 2004?
I think the thing about leaving skateboarding that needs to be said is that although I did have a period of time where I was like, ‘fuck skateboarding; get it away from me,’ I feel like that was sort of like the way you would think of an ex-girlfriend. You’re just so at your wits end with it and something that was really great has then sort of soured and doesn’t work for you anymore. And I think that experience was rooted in personal evolution, personal change and personal growth. And with that personal growth came the motivation to just stay away from skateboarding so that I could make room for other things to come in and fill that new space. Toward the end of shooting skateboarding I knew that I wanted to communicate something different with my photography. I wanted to take more responsibility for the impact of the images I was creating and the nature of skateboarding, when you’re photographing it is: you go, you shoot, you try to get a photo in before you get kicked out… In terms of being able to really simmer in it and take a picture to a place it didn’t start out as: it’s really limited. You just don’t have that ability to sit with it and ponder.
Skateboarding photography is really quick I guess…
Like what I do now (commercial advertising/lifestyle/portrait photography) is much more of that: you’re shooting tethered to a computer. So you can shoot a few frames of what you’re doing, put the camera down, stand back, look at the computer, think and say: ‘what is it that I want to communicate differently?’ And then you can go in and actually make those tweaks, whether it’s different light, or changing the fall off of the depth of field, or we need to do something different with the person we’re photographing… And I really wanted that and I craved that with photography. I didn’t know what kind of images I wanted to do, but I knew I wanted to be more involved.
Marcus McBride, ollie, Berkeley, California, 2003. Ph. Pete Thompson
Yeah I remember you saying to me in the last years of your skateboarding photography you were really getting into shooting portraits and you wanted an outlet for that kind of thing. And you said you started to enjoy that more than actually shooting skate photos.
Yeah back then there was something there, but I wasn’t really sure what it was. I was trying to chase a feeling. I was trying to develop an understanding of what you want to feel when you look at the picture and what you want other people to feel when they look at that same photo and sort of trying to make those two things come together and be as similar as possible. And I didn’t realise that was what I wanted or that’s what I was pursuing, but the process of shooting more portraits towards the end in 2002, 2003 and 2004 I think definitely was driven by that. It was also driven by the fact that I just always wanted to shoot photos.
Yeah…
So it was like, ‘ok if we’re not going to shoot a skate photo then I got this cool wall over here, or there’s this cool lighting thing happening and let’s see if we can do something…’ I just wanted to continue creating and skateboard photography can be somewhat limiting in that, although I will say that there are skateboard photographers today who I think have really taken the limitations of trying to be out there and getting a good skate photo and turned them into really, really good exercises of understanding the craft and expanding on what notes you want to play with the people that you’re with. I also think people today realise how important it is to shoot everything.
Indeed! Ok so obviously the title of your book
’93 til
, is a nod to Souls of Mischief and that era of skateboarding in the nineties… My last question is: why do you think ‘90s skateboarding is so significant?
I think for a lot of these guys my age who look back at that time period in skateboarding, there’s something about life where you grow older and things evolve and you have responsibilities and people have expectations of you. You might be married, you might have kids, and I think that when people my age who lived through that era of skateboarding, I think for them that time represents a moment in their lives where nothing really matters. And you have this deep camaraderie that’s sort of encompassed by an activity that most people didn’t understand. It wasn’t accepted…
Donny Barley and his swellbow, Tampa, 2000. Ph. Pete Thompson
Yeah this is before Tony Hawk’s 900 at the X-Games, his video game and before Street League…
It was like these bonds and these friendships that you formed were based in this thing that was sort of a secret to just you and your friends. People didn’t get it, and there’s downsides to that, I mean everyone hated you if you were a skateboarder in the nineties…
Yeah we got in our fair share of fights with jocks and pedestrians…
Oh god everyone hated us! But within that experience of being marginalised by everyone and hated by everyone that only served to create tighter bonds with people. So when you get older and you look back at those years, like, you’re not going to live years like that ever again. And the DNA of skateboarders back then was a lot of rebellion; a lot of angst and a lot of ‘fuck the world!’… I mean you had to have that attitude in order to skate and so I feel like there is an affection that people have when they look back at those years… Because skateboarding was something that gave them a sense of community, when a lot of those kids in their own angst struggled to find a community to accept them. These kids weren’t the kids that were going to go out and join a football team, or like go to keg parties with a bunch of kids from their high school, we were on a completely different template. And if you were one of those kids, finding skateboarding was like the best thing that ever happened to you. It was the thing that gave you an identity and connected you instantly with all these other kids who’d had similar experiences… And you were just immediately like, ‘oh you’re a skateboarder? Well you’re like me.’ Like you don’t want to be a part of all the conventional bullshit; you want to do something that is different and something that can’t be measured and your worth as a person is not tied up in how well you can skate. You were accepted as long as you loved skateboarding. And there were guys back then that weren’t really great skateboarders, but they were just as much part of the crew as anybody else.
Yeah completely.
And when you think about conventional activities back then for kids that were in their teens, it wasn’t like that. Your worth was based on a completely different set of criteria. So I think skateboarding in a lot of ways ended up saving these kids’ lives and I think that really plays into the bigger picture of the camaraderie and the affection that people still have today.
Pete Thompson, Kenny Hughes and Tom Penny, Tampa, 1996.
Pete Thompson’s 248-page ’93 til book will be available at skate shops this September.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  March 4, 2020
Rave Skateboards ‘Family & Friends’
Words by Ben Powell
Photography by Clémént le Gall
Like skateboarding, ‘rave culture’, (not that it really presented itself as such back in the wellies, whistles and £30 gurner era) emerged at a historical moment where the economic and social backdrop was, to put it simply, pretty fucking grim. Unless you’d spent your youth laughing at paupers on your family’s estate before being chauffeured to Oxbridge to fuck pigs, eat Fortnum & Mason hampers and study PPE with a view to pointing derisively at the poor in a professional capacity later in life, that period of time was not exactly conducive to deep personal happiness for the vast majority of people in the UK.
Margaret Thatcher‘s 1987 statement that, ‘There is no such thing as society’ summed up the prevailing mood. Times were hard and jobs were scarce but, if you were prepared to sniff your own body weight in twat powder and run across the corpses of your fellow countrymen, then you could get rich and quick. You just needed to have absolutely no empathy or social conscience, (and possibly the benefits of wealthier than average parents) and you were set.
For the rest of us, those outside of that charmed circle — shabby sub-cultural escape routes were the only glimmers of hope in that frantic, overpaid, coked up circle jerk. Skateboarding was one such escape route, raving was another.
François Tizon, wallie backside tailslide, Vitoria.
These days ‘rave culture’ comes with its own subdivisions, its own uniforms and its own superstars. Raving back in the early days was far from the shimmering, idealised catwalk of narcissism that it is today. In the gloomy late 80s/early 90s — the rave scene was a shambolic, opportunistic, Vicks Vapour infused ‘fuck you’ to the 10% of the country who were rich enough to enjoy themselves formally.
Ironically, despite the timeless 90s Droors ‘Ravers Suck’ t-shirt, at the point in time when people were driving up and down the M62 at 2am and picking up flyers in Service Station bogs with directions to huge illegal parties — ravers and skaters were a lot closer to each other than either would’ve probably cared to admit.
Both were laughed at by almost everyone else in society. Both were dressed like scarecrows who had covered themselves in glue and fallen over in a charity shop.
And, perhaps most significantly, both were on a quest for adrenaline-fuelled community that had absolutely nothing to do with making money.
Fred Plocque-Santos, backside Smith grind tailgrab, Barcelona.
Post-industrial decay is fertile soil for mischief and the north of England had more than enough abandoned factories, half built trading estates and unused A-roads to provide cover for the weekly impromptu parties whose venues were arranged through word of mouth.
It’s important to remember that this was happening pre-mobile-phones and that these raves would genuinely come about via an existing network of people keen to get saucer-eyed after a week of soul-destroying graft at B&Q.
If you knew how to find out where they were, you would. If you didn’t, you’d find yourself sharing a cup of Burger King tea between five and 1am waiting for somebody in a grossly inappropriate Avanti ski jacket to stumble into Birch Services and tell you where it was happening.
I was lucky enough to attend more than a few of these events, as I’m an old cunt. But, as there’s neither space nor time to go into too much depth — I’ll regale you with just two memories of them.
Please remember that these are raves as God intended: No egos. No celebrities on the bill. No dress code. No rules. Just pure and simple drug-fuelled escape hatches from late 80s/early 90s working class drudgery, providing a tiny window of hope for everyone present before inexorably strapping the McDonald’s costume back on for Monday morning’s shift and dreaming of the next weekend.
Edouard Depaz, frontside Smith grind, Paris.
Case study number one: somehow, someone had slipped a farmer on the outskirts of Bradford enough crispy tenners for him to agree to allow a bunch of idiots dressed for a week in Magaluf to drive three transit vans into one of his unused pig sheds and release the Spirit of Christmas Paggered.
Flyers left on tables at service stations up and down the M62 motorway confirmed the venue around 1am on the Saturday. Those lying in wait nursing tepid coffees and the stomach-bothering upswell of a £30 Dove chomped in the bogs half an hour earlier, were buzzing in every sense of the word.
The assembled masses crammed themselves into the pleasure chariots waiting in the carpark, (generally Fiestas, Fiat Pandas and other steeds affordable for the wage slaves) and headed en masse through the driving rain towards a metal shed stinking of pig shit.
Looking back at it now, I have no idea how in hell the police seemed to initially have no clue about what was going on. If I saw 500 cheap motors pull up and spew out enough tracksuits to fill a Sports Direct distribution centre then I’d have a good idea what was going on but hey, it was 1990 — the plod were still sipping warm John Smiths and listening to John Denver.
Olivier Durou, backside lipslide, Bordeaux.
The pig shed filled up. The transits parked at the front housed the generators, turntables and laser projectors and within ten minutes this foul, shit encrusted space was transformed into a DIY precursor of Manumission: only minus the beach, the paid Instagram influencers and the glamour.
The odour of pig shit was palpable but with that many people chasing the E rush via Vicks Vapour inhalers, it soon disappeared into a miasma that smelled more like a doctor’s waiting room on flu shot day than either a nightclub or a farm.
In retrospect, I’m filled with a sense of creeping shame as to just how ridiculous that scene was via the self-conscious spectacles of 2019 and a world where everything is documented and shared instantaneously. Would I be stoked for there to be pictures of me dancing around with a Vicks inhaler up my left nostril and a garage forecourt purchased glow stick in my hand? No, obviously. Thank God that Social Media didn’t exist…
At the time though — it felt exactly like freedom, which, in a naive, sportswear clad kind of way I guess it was.
Alex Richard, pole-jam grab, Bordeaux.
I have little recollection of what music was played, nor of who was playing it through tinny speakers in a disused pig shed but none of that mattered. What I can remember with utter clarity was the all-pervasive atmosphere of joy and community that bounced off the walls until long after the sun rose.
I’ll tell you one thing though, even now, as an arthritic nigh 50 year old, as soon as I hear the opening piano sample to Frankie Knuckles ‘Your Love’, (complete with the deliberate [?] missed note at ten seconds in), I can still smell that sour, burning sensation of porky poo particles deep inside my nose.
Edouard Depaz, frontside lipslide, Barcelona.
Case study in organic working class resistance number two: remember how skateparks used to be back in the early days? Abandoned warehouses occupied and converted semi-legally into the antecedents of today’s ‘extreme sports centres’ operated with scant regard for health or for safety and a business mantra that went little further than, ‘well it’s better than it being full of smackheads isn’t it?’
I was lucky enough to spend a few years in a forgotten city that had one such establishment. Amusingly built inside the carapace of what was once the local ‘Unemployment Skills Centre’, (whatever the hell that means — ‘effectively avoiding wage slavery whilst signing on’ I suppose), this skatepark was marked with the fluorescent paw print of dubious legality from the outset. When a skateboarding facility’s official name is ‘Rehab Unit-E’ you better believe that a synthesis between kickflips and bright orange speed the texture of toothpaste is on the agenda.
Time has moved on and people change and it’s undeniable that the skateboard community will be forever grateful for this place but – to say that certain people within the loosely defined ownership structure of said skatepark might’ve had their hands in various pies is to put it very mildly. Stories of bin bags full of pills being buried in the carpark and staff being paid in soapbar were rife — as were whispers of simultaneous all-nighters combining skateboarding and its glow stick waving illegitimate siblings taking place every weekend after last orders had been called.
PJ Chapuis, frontside wallride to 50-50, Bordeaux.
I can confirm that the second part of that statement is absolute truth due to having attended more than one of such boundary-shifting weekenders in a semi-professional capacity.
Try to imagine a huge warehouse on the outskirts of a total shithole. Somewhere so far removed from ‘normal’ life that the authorities either didn’t care to oversee it, or didn’t even know it was there, (one of the many benefits of paying zero tax I guess). Now imagine you and your mates have access to the keys of said facility as a result of free labour and being 20% less of an irresponsible bellend than anyone else in the immediate vicinity. Are you with me so far? Good.
Now extend your suspension of disbelief and imagine this: it’s 1993 and it’s midnight on a dismal, freezing cold November Saturday night. You and your mates are pretending that you’re Kareem (Campbell) on the DL: whether you are Kareem or not doesn’t matter as literally nobody gives one single fuck about skateboarding aside from those doing it at this point. We’re all dressed like rollerbladers will be in five years and just as you ride away from that pre-mob mob-kickflip over the driveway, the front doors are flung open and hordes of drunk, possibly drugged up maniacs run into the skatepark.
One of the many loosely defined ‘owners’ of the skatepark accompanies this rolling tide of fucked up humans, declaring at top volume, ‘Keep skating lads — we’re just having a little party.’
It’s 1am, we’ve all had a few cans and whatnot so, ‘yeah, why not?’ is the clear and obvious response. The front doors are still wide open and the tide just keeps on lapping — more and more people are arriving in frankly inappropriate footwear and occupying space everywhere in the skatepark.
Suddenly the PA coughs into life, Tronik House’s ‘Up Tempo’ (Google it) kicks in and the innumerable medicated humans not on skateboards start swaying on ledges they can’t see. Weirdly, the interlopers, (many of whom are women) are the sort of people who would be more likely to spit on skateboarders in a different context but, right now, we’re all munted and we’re all in a dirty warehouse because there’s nowhere better to be.
Léo Cholet, nollie backside 180 kickflip, Bordeaux.
This is the early 90s; everything is still pretty wank on a macrocosmic level.
John Major’s grey overbite is still in charge but right now nobody gives a fuck.
I pause for a second and watch three 30+ year old women with eyes like a brace of coquettish Bambis rubbing up against a pole jam I was involved in building whilst ‘Aceeeeeid, Aceeeeeid’ squelches out of the sound system and wonder, ‘Will it ever get any better than this?’
Truth is, it did and it didn’t but in that moment I resolved to go home and burn my Droors tee — ravers suck yeah, but ravers also don’t give two fucks about being around a bunch of sweaty, distinctly uncool skateboarders in their space, as long as there’s music and good vibes, so, as far as I’m concerned, ravers are all good.
PJ Chapuis, backside nosegrind, Bordeaux.
At this point I’m four Peronis deep so I wisely go back and read Arthur’s email again, just to check that I’m on the right track.
First line of the email — ‘Can you write something about Rave skateboards?’ What!? Rave skateboards? I only read as far as ‘Rave’. I have a regular 9-5 job mate. I didn’t pay attention past ‘Rave’…shite. Well it’s too late now, I’ve dropped in, the next wall is approaching, I can see the coping — there’s no way I’m deleting the above. My time is valuable you little French man. Surely there’s a way that I can pass this off as an intro for what you’re looking for… I mean, they decided to name their company after a British led cultural phenomenon predicated on getting wasted and enjoying the company of strangers, so it’s on them, right?
Comment on dit, ‘I fucked up’ en Francais?
Whatever homme, here’s the scoop. You’re currently enjoying the photographic fruits of the filming of Bordeaux-based Rave Skateboards’ most recent visual offering. All of these photos were shot whilst their newest video,
Family and Friends
was being put together by these garlic-chomping lovelies in various highbrow destinations. These lads have been around for a good few years now. They have a distinctly French approach to skateboarding in so far as they’re less interested in waving their cocks around in front of sets of stairs and more interested in presenting skateboarding as something that you might actually have fun doing, rather than a quick way to sustain serious injury. I’ve spoken to them a few times via email and they’re well and truly sound.
The title ‘Family and friends’ refers to the fact that; a) they all actually like each other and b); all the music used in the related clip has been created by their mates.
We live in a world where mega Pros happily risk kinked handrail death and then equally happily leave their musical accompaniment choices up to some bellend they’ve never met who thinks ‘urban trans-humanist aggro garage’ is ‘lit’, so just be grateful that there are skateboarders out there who still give enough of a shit to actually pick music they like to accompany their output.
The photos you’re looking at were shot in Bordeaux, Paris and Barcelona — all of which are fantastic cities full of brilliant human beings who will probably be your friends if you’re not a total twat. And that, if anything, is the underlying message of this rambling collection of words.
Enjoy these photographs, enjoy the accompanying video clip and then go search for ‘Early 90s Rave Classics’ on YouTube.
The universe will provide if you search in the right place. Bun all wankers.
Léo Cholet, kickflip, Bordeaux.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 14, 2022
Spotter
Spotter DIY
Photography by Roger Ferrero
Words by Raisa Abal
A MAGICAL PLACE
Isn’t it curious how the human mind holds on to some moments and remembers them forever? Like those days when you do something exciting for the first time and you never forget it. I had already heard of Spotter before I moved to Barcelona, back in 2015. I thought I knew what to expect from videos I’d seen on social media… But I could have never dreamt of what I ended up finding. I was taken there by Cristian Delgado and Ainara and I couldn’t stop asking myself: ‘what is this place? Is this heaven? How can this be here?’ This is exactly what I’m here to tell you about today.
Skateboarding was changing little by little. In 2012, the DIY culture was somewhat normal throughout the US, but in Spain, the skate scene was still deeply rooted in prefabricated skateparks with lame street obstacles. Even though it is possibly one of the most skated cities in the world, Barcelona didn’t have the best skateparks, and as the skate scene got more and more corrupted by the arrival of social media, Insta clips, likes, trap music and reposts, the city was begging for new skate spots for skateboarders to reinvent themselves.
A ‘build your own spot’ skateboarding blog contest, three people and the right abandoned lot: that’s all it took to plant the seed of what Spotter is today. You see, even though this place is located in a small industrial village around 20km away from Barcelona that some would call a ghetto, Spotter has now become a worldwide reference when it comes to DIY skateparks. I’m sure you’ll have seen videos of Oski skating it, or some of the clips by P-Stone filmed there.
Ivan Martínez, nosegrab 5-0
A MAGICAL PLACE
Spotter is a magical place: it’s basically in the middle of nowhere, nothing but pine trees, a gas station, a sports centre with huge pools (where we can bathe after skating under the scorching heat of the Catalan summer) and trains whistling in the distance. However, the first time you go to Spotter, what tends to draw your attention are the planes flying over your head. There’s a small airfield right across the road so throughout the day there will constantly be small planes hovering over the spot, so low you feel like you could touch them! This has given us a few scares throughout the years: a plane crashed into the roof of the gas station, and, just a few months ago, a plane detected a fault during take-off and had to perform an emergency landing – right on the train tracks. This time, everything was under control though, thank God.
So how did an abandoned hockey rink, filled with rubbish and rubble, become a skateboarding paradise? The answer could be: a mix of love and stubbornness. But, obviously, Spotter’s locals are the ones to blame for its charm.
Some of you might remember the first years. Miguel Gorjón, Kevin Nevado and Cristian Delgado (and his dad!) started rehabilitating the place and built a few ledges. Then came Marcos Gómez, with his wisdom, and everything started coming into shape. How could they know that it would become what it is today? ‘The Spot’, as they initially called it, was growing little by little, and new characters started to arrive. Nanaqui and Richi came for the first time to help Sergi Arenas build one of the first quarterpipes and they ended up staying forever with the rest of the Sentfields Boyz (STFS): Iván and Dani, Weeman, the Lagunilla twins, Harun… At that time, in 2013, they didn’t have any construction knowledge, but they had will and motivation! Every single one of them is peculiar in their own way (I mean it as a compliment), with very distinct personalities. I still remember watching their videos just after meeting them: they were skating naked through fire, beer cans all around, and I was puzzled by the whole thing.
Nanaqui Costa, frontside tailblock
WHERE DID THE NAME COME FROM?
The boys told me they came up with the name one day when it started raining and they found cover under a ramp. Francisquillo, a local from Badía, started rapping his boredom away, and in one of his rhymes, he said, ‘we’re at Spotter with Harry Potter’, referring to David Casado, who wears glasses. From that moment, ‘Spotter’ was the name – a word that, coincidentally, also pays homage to the plane spotters that look up to the sky in awe as the planes pass by.
Mercè Iserte, slash over Raisa Abal and Leticia Nogueira
EVERY RAMP HAS ITS STORY
Thanks to several projects supported by brands like Converse, Levi’s and Dickies, new chances to build came about. Even Spitfire launched their own Spotter wheels! The first transitions started to show up and they still remain there to this day. The boys kept building non-stop and Rocío, the lady in charge of the maintenance of the sports centre nearby, watched them at a distance. It wasn’t long until she started skipping work to hang out with the guys. They would build all day and wrap up the days with a paella by the fire. Rocío wasn’t just a great cook, she was a Badía local and knew all the key places where they could gather materials for free and keep building. She made everyone feel at home, quickly and deservingly earning her spot as ‘The Boss’.
Every ramp has its story. They never stopped building new obstacles and the area kept getting more and more full. In 2016, Richi wanted a bowl, and so he started building one under the pine tree, investing his own severance pay and selling his clothes to buy concrete. If I’m not mistaken, that’s the bowl I remember watching them skate naked, back in the day.
Right after this came Marc Manyosa. His arrival marked a before and an after in the history of Spotter. He was a real skatepark builder and offered to help with the concrete. With his help, they built the doorway and all the ramps that surround it. I think this was a turning point for the STFS Boyz, who started taking building more seriously, and, thanks to Marc, some of them have been able to start building skateparks professionally. The ledges started fading out as ramps of steep transition were built over them and Spotter started becoming the rollercoaster it is nowadays.
This might very well be the reason why this spot is so appreciated: beginners feel comfortable and welcome. You can skate without stopping, as if in a state of flow, because there’s transition at every corner. If it were a skate plaza with ledges, it would be more difficult for beginners to interact with the place and enjoy it.
You might have seen Harun around, probably skating things on fire. He once wrote a song called, ‘I’m going to set fire to my melon’, so he set his own head on fire when he played at Spottorro (or Spottorock), a festival they throw every year at Spotter to raise money for concrete.
Marcos Gómez, backside nosebluntslide
Once, he found a bicycle-parking rail in a town I can’t name and gave it to Nanaqui for his birthday; that’s how the big rainbow rail came about. Back then, a rainbow rail in a Spanish skatepark was basically unheard of. This brings me back to the moment when Cristina Mandarina grinded it for the first time. We had to go back there five or six times (Cris is a tough woman and was doing it with no pads, plus we went throughout the months of lockdown). Thank you Cris for that historical moment, respect! This is one of the wonders of Spotter: there are always girls around. Rocío is the matriarch, but Leti (who’s translating this text), Mercè, Cris, me… we’re always around. It doesn’t matter if we’re all there or if we go by ourselves. Sundays at Spotter are sacred; Spotter is like home. Every time someone new comes for the first time, I think to myself: ‘I wish this was my first day here too.’ Without a doubt, the shapes of these ramps inevitably make you see skateboarding differently. It’s a mixed feeling of tranquillity and motivation.
The spine was Nanaqui’s mission. He found a lamppost as he returned from Valencia. He had thought of using a lamppost from the streets as coping before, so everything came out exactly the way he wanted. He brought it all the way to Barcelona and they built the double spine. Here’s your lesson: if you don’t have coping, use a lamppost instead.
Andrés de Badia, Harun Ruiz, Mitrel Vasile, Dani Martínez, Marcos Gómez, Yavi Fernández, Edgar Tellez and Miguel Gorjon
A PLACE FOR ALL GENERATIONS
Ciscu and Paolo are two characters that can’t go unmentioned. Ciscu is a primary school teacher. I think that four or five years ago nobody would have convinced him that he would be part of a second family made up of skaters. A couple of years ago, he started brewing craft beer at home and decided to create Spotter Hops, thus using his craft to contribute to raising money for the spot. Just a month ago he got the boys to build a couple of concrete obstacles in the courtyard of the school where he teaches. This is the first school in Spain with concrete ramps for kids to skate. Can you imagine?
I remember when Paolo started coming out so his son could skate there with us. At the beginning he skated a little bit, but the more he came the more motivated he was, so much that now he always skates; even more than his son! Cisco and Paolo started skating later in life and they’re the most hyped. Spotter has changed their lives for the better. As adults, this place gave them something new and a motivation that they probably hadn’t felt for a long time.
Yeray Escobar, backside boneless
Genís and Guille are eight and nine years old. For them, Spotter seems to come right out of a fairy tale. Literally! At first, when they started coming and didn’t know our names, they would give us all fictional names from popular stories. For instance, Rob was Robin Hood, Marc Manyosa was Gepetto, because he’s a carpenter, and of course Spotter was Sherwood. Guille always wanted to be a carpenter himself, and it just so happens that his local heroes are also inspiring carpenters. They always come with their dad, Sebas. These three are an example of how times have changed and, nowadays, it’s no longer ‘strange’ that your dad takes you out skating where you want to skate and even sets up his own board so he can skate with you. I remember the day when Roxana and I committed to fix the manual pad before work, and Genís and Guille skipped lunch break at school to come and skate it, even if just for a little bit.
Genis Grinschpun and Guille Grinschpun
Spotter was their refuge during quarantine, since it wasn’t regulated as a ‘public skatepark’. Throughout that time of restrictions it was difficult to know where to go with the boys, so Spotter became their first choice. Moreover, everything in the mainstream skateboarding industry right now seems to be a strict marketing campaign, and not only the kids, but also parents appreciate the fact that you can escape that at Spotter.
But Guille and Genís aren’t alone; more and more kids come to spend their afternoons at spotter, by themselves or with their parents. They discover the slappy curb and the small ramps and they hype each other up. It’s incredible, because this is not the same vibe as a skatepark in the city centre. I suppose they tell their friends all about it and, next thing they know, they’re sharing their skateboards (and skateboarding) with their friends.
Spotter has organically become a safe place where people can enjoy all sorts of things: skating with your friends, having a couple of drinks, catching up and having a laugh and even teaching your kids how to skate. Just look at how the paradigm is shifting: you can start skating at a DIY, surrounded by people who inspire you, creating and expressing yourself in the way you want; nobody judges you and it doesn’t turn into a competition. The older guys teach you how to build and you start imagining how to create your own obstacles. Richi always tells me: ‘you can do it if you believe you can’ and he’s absolutely right.
Mitrel Vasile, backside ollie
A WORLDWIDE REFERENCE
This has been a process of almost ten years. The evolution of Spotter has witnessed many styles and eras. Because it is located in Badía, they have been able to grow non-stop. This is a small, humble town, quite free of worries and pretensions. The people of Badía seem to only care about football, so nobody has bothered or cared to investigate what’s going on under the
pine trees.
Nonetheless, Spotter started captivating people from far away places and different walks of life. For instance, Rob is from England and he met Nanaqui and Richi in Copenhagen when they were teenagers. When he saw what was cooking in Badía, he packed his backpack and a sleeping bag and said: ‘I’m off!’. He hadn’t built much before coming here, but he found his passion and now he builds a lot, at Spotter and around the world.
Spotter is a must-see. If you’re visiting Barcelona, you have to make time to enjoy a sunny day at Spotter. Some people fall in love with this place and they start coming regularly; some people pay a visit on special occasions and others save it for a special Sunday and bring the whole crew along. People from all over the world have come to skate here; skateboarders from the USA, Denmark, Belgium, Italy, Germany, the UK, Israel, Australia, etc.
Harun Ruiz, Guillem Tristany and Aleix Pujalt
HOW LONG WILL IT LAST?
Everything is going great so far, but we’ve always faced the possibility of getting thrown out and having the place torn down. For years there have been rumours concerning the legality of the place, and that this could happen at some point. As this forecast seems to be getting more and more real, we have decided to organise and finish creating the association that Marcos and the boys started back in 2019.
The sports centre is under construction and this plot has now been pronounced industrial land (when it was previously considered a sports ground). We’re afraid that this will increase the chances of this humble corner under the pine trees becoming a target of industrialisation and construction.
We have a
GoFundMe
set up (@
spotter.life
) and a collection of signatures running so we can continue keeping the place in good condition and at least keep our little space intact, even if they decide to build around it. We have a long way to go, but we’re ready.
This summer, Spotter will be ten years old and we really want to celebrate it with new projects. We don’t know how long it will last (we’re hoping it will be here for a while!), but we will enjoy it until the end.
View Gallery | 14 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 8, 2016
Joey Pepper Interview
Joey Pepper in Copenhagen, August 2016. Ph. Sam Ashley
Whilst in Copenhagen last month, we ran into Joey Pepper. Joey’s an office favourite and also an old friend of mine from the Boston days… So why not catch up and see what he’s been up to? Moving out west again, quitting Expedition over Instagram, going on Levi’s builds, woodworking… Suffice to say we had a lot to talk about. Take a look…
Interview by Will Harmon
You moved to Portland about a year ago. Why the move there after so many years in New York?
I had been in New York for ten years and I was just ready for a change. I love New York, but I kind of just needed some space. New York is rad, but I like to do a lot of stuff outdoors – so living in NYC I’d always have to drive to Maine where I’m from or go far upstate New York and even then it’s hard to get out there.
It takes a long time to get out of the city.
Yeah. And I got a couple friends,
Nikhil Thayer
, he’s a good friend who lives in Portland and I knew a couple other people. My buddy Josh (Mathews) was just about to move there so my wife and I just packed everything up and drove out there. We liked it and it’s a cool place. There’s a good little skate scene.
Yeah there are a lot of people moving up there recently…
Yeah there are a lot of dudes and we have a tight little crew.
Silas (Baxter-Neal)
has
his park
, which is gone now, but we are building a new park. I don’t know it’s just a good scene. So I can do the skate thing and Portland is close to so much stuff in the northwest that I always wanted to explore.
Yeah I always remember you as being an outdoorsman. It must be easier to access that kind of stuff now.
Yeah you can leave the city and in 30 minutes you can be in epic scenery, go fishing and hit parks. And not even just Oregon, all over the Northwest – Montana’s not a far drive and you can go to Washington easily, Canada… All over the place.
You still have that nice car?
Yeah I still have the old Nova; I’ve been cruising that thing around. I’m thinking about selling it though. It’s an old 64 Nova.
I didn’t even catch this, but everyone was talking about this Instagram you did… It was talking about you leaving Expedition One and stuff. By the time I heard about it and went to see it, it was taken down. Do you want to speak about that?
Yeah it’s funny… I rode for Expedition for almost ten years and it had its ups and downs, but things were pretty solid with the team and it was good. But towards the end, there was a strange direction going on with the team. I think towards the final days of myself being on the team I was asking a lot of questions and I was getting a lot of answers (and promises), only people wouldn’t really follow through with the answers they’d give me… They didn’t do what they said they were going to do.
Yeah.
I mean shit’s hard out there for all the companies; it’s super-hard and that’s understandable. If it’s someone you are stoked on and riding for and getting paid very little or nothing at all then that’s fine. But at the end of the day if you’re getting lied to and not getting paid… It’s a whole different story – and that’s what was happening. People just weren’t being up front with us.
And you were not alone right?
A lot of other people were unhappy too. I didn’t want to let my teammates down, but at the same time I had less and less pride in what I was doing. Like what’s the point? I didn’t wanna take that shit out skating with me. You go out skating for the day and you are representing someone’s brand that is lying to you, not paying you… Towards the end they owed me over $10,000 and then straight up lying about where that money is and why the money’s not there. I just couldn’t do it anymore.
Yeah I understand.
So the day I did that Instagram I made a call… I made a couple calls and I was trying to do it over the phone for a few days and no one was responding. And it was super-important and I was leaving messages telling them ‘yo, I wanna talk! Let’s figure this out. I wanna talk to you,’ and no one called me back. So I was like: ‘you know what, I’m over this!’ I didn’t want to be associated with it (Expedition One) anymore so one of my options would have been to leave quietly like: ‘oh it’s been fun! It’s been a fun ten years,’ but that wasn’t the truth. The truth was that I was pissed off; I felt like I got fucked over, my teammates were being fucked over and we were being disrespected. And I honestly don’t think that dude Troy (Morgan) gave a shit about any of us. I think he’s a fucking liar. And I think he’s out for himself. He tries to pretend he’s all about it and he cares so much, but if he did care, he wouldn’t have let it fall apart like that.
So I posted that shit and a lot of people asked me if they told me to take it down but that’s not what happened. I left it up for a couple of days just so people could see it and then I took it down because I didn’t want to see it anymore. I wanted whoever wanted to see it, to see it, and then it’s done. I didn’t want to leave it up there and let it have a presence you know? I just wanted it out there and have my name disassociated from what they are doing.
And then since then have other people approached you? Like board sponsors?
Yeah a little bit. I’ve been talking to a couple of people, but I’m not really sure what I’m going to do, but there are some brands that are doing cool shit and have cool graphics. It’s kind of exciting not being sponsored. I got a couple boxes from a couple different people and I would get them in the mail and I’d actually be looking at the graphics, studying the graphics and thinking about if I like that or if I think it’s cool. I’m really into people that have a more artistic approach to things and if there’s somewhat of a story behind it rather than just a big fucking logo. Some of these smaller brands are doing things that (I think) are actually cool and it’s given me a different perspective.
Well for years you’ve ridden for these bigger brands.
Yeah, well Zoo (York) was a little blip on the radar… Ok so a lot of the more established brands, one of their bigger complaints is that ‘these small brands are killing us!’
Oh wow, I didn’t realise they said that.
Or maybe just that it’s oversaturated. There are just so many small brands, and these smaller brands don’t have the big overhead and they don’t have huge payrolls so they can survive on a lot less. My perspective before was like ‘eh we’re getting killed. It’s hard to compete with these small brands,’ but now I’m like well shit, ‘what would I buy if I was a kid?’. When I was a kid I was buying Capital boards and all these small brands.
Because it was ‘cooler’?
Cooler graphics… Kids grab on to those subcultures and they are out there looking for that shit. I get it man… I would be doing it too.
Ok to change the subject a bit, how did you get linked up with Levi’s? Is there like a designated team?
Well there is a designated team but… I feel like the whole thing just happened organically. I wasn’t riding for Levi’s, but I heard about the Bolivia project that they were doing and I reached out to a couple of people and I wanted to go on that. I thought it was rad and I wanted to be a part of it. So we worked it out and Levi’s helped a bunch of people go out there. And through being out there, I kind of developed a relationship with the people at
Levi’s Skateboarding
. Then I went on a couple more trips… I did the
South Dakota thing
, and I wasn’t even riding for the team then, but I just thought the DIY project they did on an Indian reservation was a cool idea so I just called them and said, ‘hey I wanna go on this project…’
But there is something interesting about how Levi’s has quite a few HUF guys involved…
Well I mean that’s like how things get built organically… Josh Mathews was a big part of it, and I’m a good friend of Josh and the same thing with Dan (Plunkett).
That’s like your crew right there!
Yeah. But that’s what makes it work because we all get along. Al (Partanen), Marius (Syvanen), and me, Dan, Josh and Pat (Moran), we’re all just good friends. So when we go on these trips it’s like family. We don’t have to fake hanging out and being friends and shit… It’s just real. We are all into the same things and we are able to work and are stoked to build these projects and make cool shit. We’re hyped to go to all these places and they need someone to plant that seed. And that’s all it is, we are just going places where they don’t necessarily have the means of doing it, but they have potential and there’s kids who need it. So we go and try and kind of help them develop something that they may have even already started.
Have you built a lot of skateparks, and obstacles before? Because I know you are quite
into woodworking
.
Not much. Before these Levi’s projects I hadn’t worked with concrete much more than patching up a spot or filling in some cracks. So I’ve learned a lot. I think we’ve all learned a lot through this process because we go in and we’ll work with real good professional skatepark builders. We work side by side with them and they show us stuff and also we work with a lot of really good DIY dudes.
So now you got the hang of it?
Yeah we’ve all got to know it pretty good. In the last couple months we’ve actually done a couple more projects… We just did one in Detroit; that was rad. I feel like we’ve all kind of learned enough so we can actually go out and build some rad shit on our own and do it right. We can make something that lasts now, rather than something that’s going to fall apart in a couple years.
So are you still really into woodworking?
Yeah I’m still doing it. I have a woodshop in Portland. It’s kind of like if you are an artist or a painter, you need a place to paint. Whether or not I have some big project going, I need a place to go to. Like a skater needs a skatepark. If it’s raining in the winter you need an indoor park. For me, I need to have a place to go build shit. In New York I had my own woodworking space and in Portland I do now as well. I do stuff on my own sometimes and I work on my own little projects and then other times I’ll get commission work and I build stuff for other people. Lately I haven’t had so much time, but it’s there, I have the space when I need it. It’s a matter of finding the time… You gotta strike a balance.
So things are good with
HUF
? What’s been going on?
Yeah things are good, I’m on a HUF trip right now. I’m in Copenhagen; it’s nice out and sunny finally. Everything’s good with HUF; they are always super-active. We’ve got a big team but we always stay involved with each other and go on trips together. They’ve shown me all kinds of support over the years and hopefully we can keep it going. And then that’s the thing… You look at HUF, the strength of the team or a company starts from the top. It starts from the number one guy. And so you look at HUF, and the number one guy (Keith Hufnagel) is fucking solid.
And he knows skateboarding up and down.
Yeah and it shows in everything: it shows in the product, it shows in the team, it shows how happy the people are, it shows in the creativity, it shows in everything about it and it starts from the number one guy. And I feel like that was one of the problems that was happening with Expedition, the number one guy was not solid and it just fell apart from there.
Thanks Joey. Good to see you again buddy. Until next time!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 9, 2015
Palace in Paris
Photos by Alex Pires
Words by Alex Pires and Jack Greer
The good thing about the
Palace
guys is that they’re not into overselling their trips before they’re doing them. There’s no hashtag invasion plan whatsoever. No pressure. Brady just called me up one-week prior and asked if I would be keen to join them for a week. From then on we just found a housing solution for the guys (thanks Jack and Felix!) and it was on. The only idea being that we should try to keep it suburbs only for a change.
There’s all kind of suburbs in Paris, mostly depending on which end of the city you’re going. Some are really posh and rich, and some quite ghetto. When it comes to the most ghetto ones, people usually are scared to go there in the afternoon. A bad encounter could easily occur; especially when it comes to all the photo and video gear we’re known to carry around.
Juan Saavedra, backside ollie.
So when it came to finding locals from Paris to show us around in the suburbs, some were quite reluctant to go there so late in the afternoon. Fair enough, TM Brady just declared then that for these “no go” zones as Fox would call them, all the guys should wear tracksuits only! Not everyone followed the rule, but I must admit it quite paid off since none of us got in trouble the whole week.
I’ve never seen skaters so obsessed with football. Especially when there would be Champions League games the same night. They would pick whatever restaurant, no matter the food, just as long as they had a big enough screen to watch the game. That one day PSG was playing against Barca, I even suspected Brady to have focused his board on purpose in order to be on time for the game. Strange thing being, in the town we were, the only place that seemed decent to eat and watch the game was a pizzeria owned by a handball maniac. The owner could not stop switching channels between the PSG game and some apparently super important handball French championship finals. He made everyone miss two goals that night. I can’t even imagine their reaction if it would have been Manchester playing against Chelsea.
Blondey McCoy, ollie.
Then again when it comes to skate those sketchy spots, the Palace crew’s love for football helped us out since they would often end up playing football with the local kids afterwards. I even went back there with some other crew weeks later, and some of the kids still had a real good memory of them. They would ask us “are you the guys from Palace
?
” even if the only thing they had most likely said to skaters before then was the usual “are you Tonywok
?
”
Most of you might think those guys sleep in 5-star hotels and such, but it’s far from that! They’re just your regular skate crew. They slept on our friends’ floor the whole week and every lunch would pretty much consist of the same routine: find a cheap supermarket nearby, buy a shitload of bread, ham, cheese and share all of that on the first ping pong table we would find. Of course, whenever vegetables were involved in the mix, we would think of supplying Guillaume (Perimony) with a good amount of candies so he could keep on filming.
Rory Milanes, frontside nollie.
Most of the spots featured in this article are not the regular type of spots you see people skate in Paris. And we owe most of them to Guillaume’s knowledge. He’s one of a kind when it comes to find those gems. He even confessed that he sometimes lurks on some weird scooter Facebook groups to find new ones. You just have to get lucky with the rough ground once you show up there. Good thing we were out with English skaters, they’re used to it.
Guillaume has all the knowledge and techniques. He even got us back to Paris one night in a very special manner. We were in a town far in the suburbs, and the last train was leaving then at that very moment. We were all running down the stairs to catch it when we heard the signal of the train closing its doors. When we reached the gate we saw the train was still there and Perim had his hand stuck in between the two doors waiting for us. He opened them like Schwarzenegger did in that Terminator movie so we could get back to town on time. Merci Perim!
Danny Brady, ollie.
The first purpose of this tour was to gather some more footage for their upcoming collab with Bronze. I think it may be out by now. And this is again what I meant with the way those guys deal with such things. Not only did they not market the tour with a shitload of hashtags all over Instagram like most of the brands would do, but they were also not putting themselves under the pressure of shooting a shitload of photos for any article, which sometimes can destroy the mood of a trip. They even told me it would be “lines only” before coming to town. But then again, they proved themselves wrong and as you can see next to this text – actions speak louder than words.
-Alex Pires
When I was first asked to host the Palace boys on their Parisian tour, admittedly I was a bit nervous. There had only been a few shared experiences in the past – one of which included a bachelor party in Berlin for five days at the world’s sketchiest hostel. I could write an entire novel about that place, much more than I could write about the entire city of Berlin… My clouded memories included Brady stumbling up at a party that was somehow along the river and didn’t really have an indoor element – although this might sound quite normal in Berlin, it was definitely not the usual party environment I had been accustomed to back home. I guess Brady had already been in Berlin for a few days trying to party, I mean get clips. Either way, the group of roughly twenty-six males searching for all forms of intoxication was my initial introduction. High/low points included Shawn Powers falling into the river and somehow ending up in a scene from the movie
Blade
with blood dripping down the walls of a basement. Don’t get me wrong, I’m no angel, I definitely was part of the 10am crawl down the street to the plastic wrapped bunk beds at ‘
The Generator
’ hostel.
Benny Fairfax, switch flip.
This time around, in Paris, I was living and working on a painting in a much less hostile environment and wasn’t sure if I was ready to return to the antics of the summer two years previous. I was in for a shock – not only was the potential wild card (because of my having never met him) Benny Fairfax one of the most gracious guests to ever step foot into my life but the loudest I heard Blondey get was while approving or disapproving of the current clips on thrashermag.com. I found myself trying to let it be known that I wasn’t a crunchy old dork and joints could be lit inside, however, them Palace boys were making each other tea as the night cap while I was trying to get blackout faded. Brady was on schedule with the filming routine; organising the spot checklist and making sure everyone was out the door before afternoon – as well as searching for Lucien who wasn’t coming, was going to come, might be on the train, maybe is in Paris
?
He wasn’t staying at mine but was equally as much of the mob once we found him at République a few days in. Rory had been working through an ankle injury for the previous seven months and therefore had the full stretch routine every morning. I mentioned the organised stretches on the yoga foam as an aspect of pure professionalism to my next guest in the apartment, Alex Olson, who said that must be related to their culture’s relationship with football. Either way, it actually did end up feeling more like having the “
Class of ’92
” than a bunch of wild house-music ravers. It was truly a pleasure to have the crew staying at my place and I would recommend it to anyone safe out there in need of a banging session with the boys who know how to get proper mash up without turning into mentalists.
-Jack Greer
Juan Saavedra, wallride.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  June 7, 2021
The American Dream (part 5 of 6): Bastien Salabanzi
The American Dream
is a series of six interviews with European pros, looking back at their experiences of moving to California to pursue skateboarding careers.
1998. Ph: Pete Thompson.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
At what age did you start going to America for skating?
Bastien Salabanzi: The first time I was 11 I think, or maybe 12. It was in 1997. I’d won the French leg of a Warped Tour comp that took place in Marseille so Vans invited me to represent France in the World Championships in Ventura. I remember getting flown out there, all expenses paid with my brother, and I think it’s actually there that I was first seen by Rune Glifberg, which later led him to start speaking to Flip about me. But it’s probably not until I was 13 that I really started going out there regularly. I’d stay on Geoff Rowley’s couch in Huntington Beach for two or three months at a time to film for Sorry…
Thirteen… And this time without anyone from your family, right?
Yeah my mum signed some papers to make Geoff legally responsible for me while I was out there. I remember it feeling completely surreal… Just being in the van with Appleyard to my left, Rowley to my right, skating all these spots I’d seen in the videos, one minute I’m at the Lavar Mcbride manual pads, the next I’m watching these guys grind some famous rail…
Sounds so intimidating.
It was but also it meant that I was forced to step my game up. Plus things were happening so fast that I wasn’t really taking a step back to reflect on what was going on too much you know? Like we were constantly on filming trips or demo/promo tours to promote this or that…
Were you already getting paid then?
I properly started getting properly paid right after my part in Sorry came out, so when I was 15. That’s when I turned pro for Flip, Vans started talking to me about getting a shoe, etc.
But like… How? Like how do you receive large salaries from brands like that when you’re 15?
Flip had this accountant (that I’m still in contact with today) that would basically take care of all my money for me. The checks would go straight to him, all the money would go into this account that he’d set up and manage for me, and if I ever wanted money to buy video games, weed, fast food or whatever, I’d just ask him and he’d give me what I needed.
And what about if it was something bigger? Like you bought a house in Huntington Beach right?
Yeah I mean it would be exactly the same thing, like the house was through them as well. They literally took care of everything that could possibly be taken care of for me, whether it was normal life stuff like paying water or electricity bills to getting me hooked up with other sponsors… Everything. All I had to do was be in the van and skate. And they were like my family so it felt kind of normal you know, I really trusted them.
Backside noseblunt, Tampa, 2000. Ph: Pete Thompson.
And we’re talking huge amounts of money you were getting at this age right?
Oh yeah… I mean to give you an idea when I won the World Cup in Dortmund they just gave me an envelope with $25,000 cash inside it. I was 15. Although I think I just kept that one in a drawer though ha ha, ‘cause I remember just going back to it and taking little handfuls of hundreds every now and then when I decided I wanted something. It lasted a while!
Did that amount of supervision not make you feel a bit claustrophobic?
I don’t know… I wouldn’t say I felt claustrophobic, no. Or at least definitely not at that time. Just because it’s kind of all that mattered for me: I was going to be in Sorry and the most important thing in my life at that point was to have a part that would stand up alongside Rowley’s or Arto’s, and not for it the be the token ‘little kid’ part, you know? That’s all I lived for then and honestly, if at that point I hadn’t been in that kind of environment I don’t think I would have been flip front boarding 16-stair handrails. It’s because I was constantly around those dudes, putting pressure on myself to skate on that level that I was doing all that stuff…
What I did feel after a while though was that I was so immersed in skating that I started to need other things in my life to keep doing what I was doing and be happy.
Like what?
Basically I went on a Quiksilver trip with Stefan Janoski who’d brought along an acoustic guitar and as soon as I tried it I was hooked… It’s kind of hard to explain but discovering that was a bit of a slap in the face, like I just thought it was so fucking class. And that passion led to me becoming close friends with this luthier, a guy who knew absolutely nothing about skating, and that was incredible for me. Being able to speak to him about guitars and music, geeking out on wood or mics or whatever for hours, that really helped me get through the filming of my Really Sorry part and go on tour with a smile on my face.
What did your sponsors think of this new passion?
I wasn’t always very well understood if I’m honest, especially as I’d suddenly spend days working on B.B. King’s blues licks rather than my backside flips, but I think they could tell I needed it. I was now 20 or something at this point, so for five years my entire life had solely revolved around Huntington Beach and the Flip van, that’s a long time to be straight going for it you know? And it had been nonstop: always the gnarly gaps, always that same Californian concrete… I just wanted something else. So the music was one side of it and the other was that I started going back to Europe more, eventually getting an apartment in Barcelona. I really missed Europe but also I genuinely thought I’d be more productive out there; I was so sick of always getting kicked out, spending ages in the van… In Barca you’d just stick a backpack on, walk out the door and skate from spot to spot all day you know? Plus I had the whole Lordz thing going on and with Flo, William Phan, Luypa, JB and stuff; we had such a sick crew! All I wanted was to be skating at a Spanish plaza, with a coke, a little joint and my mates.
And then what happened? Because you ended up moving back to the States right?
Yeah, I went back for a bit but I’d seen the benefits of going back and forth between the two places, so I ended up asking Flip if they’d be okay with me spending six months in Barca and the other six in the States. I knew it’s what I wanted so I kind of gave them an ultimatum.
And?
And they were straight up like ‘NO. That’s not going to work, we need you here and that’s that.’ For them Huntington Beach was the mecca of skateboarding you know? That was it. And I hated being told that things had to be a certain way and ‘that’s that’, no negotiations… So I basically told them to fuck off and went back to France! And I don’t regret it.
And so I’m assuming it’s just before this that you filmed all the footage that would later become this ‘lost part’?
Yeah, it’s that period when everyone thought I’d quit skating and disappeared to play the guitar or whatever. Really we’d already started filming for Extremely Sorry, but since things were going a bit sour between us I started skating with them less and less.
What still confuses me is that they had so much mental footage of you at that point, like that ‘lost part’ was nuts! Why didn’t you try to take that with you? Or was that not really an option? I always thought it was weird how that thing was branded a lost part, obviously that stuff didn’t just get ‘lost’.
It’s a weird one. I think part of it was that I was quite productive at the time so I didn’t really realise what I’d been sitting on, but then also I was still really confident in my abilities so I didn’t really care what I’d filmed with them. I was convinced that I’d be able to film new stuff that would create some hype around whatever I was doing. I don’t think taking those clips with me really even crossed my mind, I just wanted to close the door on that whole thing and move on. And to be honest with you it’s not until Ewan Bowman got in contact years later asking me if I was okay with him releasing that part – which I was, of course – that I started thinking about what I actually had.
Given how much of a supportive ‘family’ they’d been when you first moved out there, was it weird being completely on your own to start a new life back in France?
Yeah of course. And obviously when people take care of everything for you like that they mean well, but when all of a sudden there’s no longer that cocoon, and you’re alone with yourself out there struggling to sort the paperwork for a house or even the most basic adult human stuff, it definitely feels strange… You think to yourself ‘great I can tre flip, but what’s the point if I can’t do this’. It’s motivating though, like when it hit me I instantly really wanted to prove to myself that I could do all this stuff, and I learned to.
But beyond that, I also realised that that whole part of the industry is like a friendly mafia, you know? The kind that you really don’t want to get on the wrong side of…Because since they’re all friends if you have beef with one of them it affects everything around you. And as I said they’d found me my accountant, my real estate agent, but also pretty much all my other sponsors, so the domino effect of quitting Flip was gnarly. Suddenly I was off Venture, Quiksilver didn’t renew my contract after three months despite me obviously fulfilling my duties, Diamond started blanking me, I got in a really bad argument with Pierre-Andre Senizerg (head of Etnies) although admittedly that one was my fault… So yeah, when I got back to Hyères, where I grew up in France, I fully had to start from scratch.
Switch ollie, Los Angeles, 2003. Photo: Oli Barton.
It sucks that it had to come to that, especially given where we’re at today with so many successful brands and pros being based in Europe. But I guess all that is thanks to people like you trying to break that mould…
Yeah… It was such a different time. I remember thinking about all this when I was at MACBA once… Sarmiento had just showed up, said hi to everyone or whatever, still looking half asleep… And then when I looked over to the ledge I saw him do a back three tailslide cab flip out, and then he just sat down and chilled for the rest of the day. I remember thinking like ‘what the hell is going on here?!’ That dude has always been an absolute skate god, but it’s only really when he’d go to the States and do some shit on their spots that he’d suddenly be ‘the shit of the month’ for a bit but then he’d go home and that would be that. I always felt like even if I’d only put in 30% of the effort, if it was on American soil it would count for twice as much. Even with contests, like I was going for it in Europe, skating my ass off winning loads of them in France for years, but it’s only after I won this Vans Warped Tour Final in Huntington Beach that suddenly I mattered. Like after I got down from that podium and had beaten Eric Koston, Andrew Reynolds and Jamie Thomas IN AMERICA, that’s when my phone started blowing up with the craziest offers from every brand… Suddenly it was all like ‘okay you’re going pro for this or that company, we’re already talking to the factories about your shoe, then it’ll be a world tour with all these pros, etc.’ And I couldn’t help but feel like… ‘So before last weekend everything was normal, and now this?’ Like, ‘ everything else I did before, did that not count or something? ‘Cause I’ve been skating the same.’
And I honestly think we’re still not ‘in the game’ like America is but we’ll get there and things are changing. The days of having to go to your friend’s house to watch a VHS because he’s the only person you know to have it are long gone, everything moves so fast now. If you film an NBD it doesn’t matter if you’re in India or wherever, if it goes viral on Instagram everyone’s going to see it.
Also yeah it is crazy that it came to that but it at the same time it made complete sense for me. I remember thinking: ‘going on missions with Geoff Rowley, constantly skating rails, that always have to be longer or higher than the previous ones… That’s cool, but why did I start skateboarding? Because it was playful and was something I enjoyed doing with my friends. And it’s not because I don’t have a board sponsor and that I’m in Europe that I’m not a skateboarder and I can’t enjoy this.’ And reconnecting with the friends I started skating with at my local park felt amazing! Plus I learnt tons of new tricks during that period; it’s when I got into all the double flips and stuff… Going back to the basics is what I needed.
Looking back on all this, is there anything you would have done differently?
I’ve actually thought about this a lot… I don’t know if I would have done anything differently but I do sometimes wish skaters weren’t so harsh or quick to judge people about certain things. It’s tricky when at the age of 15, because you’re put on a pedestal, people expect you to have the maturity and wisdom of someone who’s 25. That’s simply not possible, no matter how fast you’re growing. And it took me a while to realise that what was asked of me was not just to be a good skater, that actually people read my interviews, looked closely at how I came across as a person in videos, and that all that mattered. People analyse how you behave, if you seem respectful, if you’re humble… But people aren’t born that way; you grow into that. Or at least I wasn’t born that way. I’ve always been someone who thrives off pressure and being seen, which is why sometimes I’d have these explosions of joy – for instance after contest runs or tricks where I’ve bottle up so much of it – and I don’t regret them, but it also meant that if things didn’t work out I’d flip, you know? Now I know that I don’t have to be so dramatically black or white about things, but I didn’t then, nor did I think about how that might be perceived… I was so young that I just didn’t care. I wasn’t at all self aware or able to take that kind of distance about things then.
I mean that probably wasn’t made any easier by the fact that you were completely surrounded by people that would do anything for you to ‘just skate’.
Yeah, like none of the other stuff was really expected of me or explained to me until it was obvious that it was something I should have been aware of, if that makes sense. And when I see old footage of myself in certain situations now sometimes I can almost see how people could think I was a certain way… But yeah there was just a huge gap between what was going on in my head, how I thought I was being perceived and how I was actually being perceived. And you know what? To this day I still sometimes meet people that are like, ‘I always assumed you’d be really cold, just because you seem so in the zone when you’re skating, but you’re actually really nice!’, which is cool… I guess? Ha ha.
Classic ha ha. Thanks for making time to chat about all this!
Fakie flip, Los Angeles, 2003. Photo: Oli Barton.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  November 13, 2015
Mark Frolich’s Hungry Daze Part 2
Watch part 1
HERE
.
Mark Frölich has always been a bit of an enigma. For almost ten years now he’s been battering his body on a daily basis. At the moment his only sponsors are Jart Skateboards and Forvert clothing, he barely makes enough money from skating to survive and the chances of him scoring one of those golden shoe deals at this point are pretty slim. Where does he find the drive to kill himself for his next 8-minute self-edited video part? How is he so motivated that he would buy himself a flight to Geneva for one trick? I’m not sure this interview actually answers all those questions but what it does do is underline the fact skateboarding needs guys like Mark that try way too hard. Skateboarding needs those guys that skip the partying on skate trips just so they can wake up early and try to get ‘hammers’; because if not trying becomes any cooler, things are going to become boring real quick. Here’s to one of the most dedicated weirdoes in the game!
Interview by Arthur Derrien
All right mate how’s it going? You just got back from Switzerland right? How was that?
It was good only that back noseblunt took a lot out of me.
Not surprising…
Man it’s the ground that really fucked me. I could have done it in five tries if it wasn’t for that. I must have put it down like thirty times or something… Plus I really wanted to do it in a certain way so I ended up doing it three times: twice on my board and once on my friend’s because I’d snapped mine. Plus it was the first spot. Flew over there Thursday morning and went straight there.
That’s ridiculous.
Well I flew out there for that trick so it made sense to start off with it. Plus I was only there for two days. I still managed to do a bit of skating after that tough. We went to some kinked rail on the outskirts… That place is good for skating isn’t it?
Yeah it is. Although I don’t think that would justify wanting to chuck yourself down a kinked rail right after the session you just described. Aside from skating what did you think of the place? It’s quite strange right?
It’s Switzerland man. A kebab cost 12 euros, what do you expect? Of course it’s a weird place! We needed to tie up this tree for a spot so I bought two pairs of shoelaces and some candles and it came to 12 euros! Then again we saw recruitment ads to work at a Lidl and salary offers started at 4K, besides that it’s a pretty nice place though… I guess if you have that kind of payday you don’t mind paying 12 bucks for a kebab…
Frontside five-o to fakie. Photo: Stéphane Zanette.
You’d definitely have a hard time surviving just from skateboarding out there that’s for sure. For how long have you been ‘living the dream’ now?
I don’t know if I’d call it living the dream man! Call it living the misery… Just kidding, I’d say I’ve been living the misery for about ten years now. I’m 29 now. I don’t want to complain though, I’m really grateful to be able to be doing what I love for a living.
You’ve always had quite an old school approach to working on video projects, saving all your footage for two-song video parts rather than having your footage scattered in various edits and on social media. What’s up with that?
I don’t know man… All the social media stuff doesn’t really mean that much to me. That being said I understand that it’s part of the game nowadays and I respect that brands want you to use it until a certain level and I use it as well… It’s just for sure not my main focus…. I like it when people put some time and effort into parts. I like to see that they’ve thought a little bit about what they want to do. Because at the end of the day why do we bring out videos? Why do we bring out parts? Because we are trying to communicate something right? It’s an atmosphere created by your skating mixed with music and editing. What message can you really communicate with Instagram vid?
It certainly is a lot harder to communicate something as powerful in 15 seconds.
I’ve actually recently been asked to get an Instagram by my sponsors. I’m going to start one soon. As it is I just send them clips to post every now and then.
What would you do if they suddenly told you they wanted you to become some Christian ‘The Boss’ style Instagram sensation and didn’t want you wasting your time on full parts anymore?
I don’t think I could do it man… I’m stoked to be able to pay rent from skating; it really means a lot to me but I have to see sense in what I’m doing. It does exist though right? There are professional skaters out there that make a living from going on a few tours, putting up Instagram clips from their day at the skatepark and showing their face at comps without working on proper projects. I wouldn`t find that so fulfilling… I guess I would try to fulfil my duty with the social media stuff but still keep doing other things as well.
Ollie by Julien Deniau.
So you’d just get a job and chuck yourself down massive rails for your next part in your own time…
Yeah I guess… But having a real job takes up so much time. It would be tough. I definitely prefer getting paid for skating!
But at least you get something you are really proud of.
It’s not even about pride man. Feeling good about all the effort you’ve put into something is important but it’s more about wanting to stay motivated and keep progressing. Working on a long-term project helps you push yourself.
It must be getting harder and harder for you to get the funding for these solo mega-projects you put so much time and effort into.
I wouldn’t say it’s getting harder because it was never easy but as it is my sponsors are still happy to support me on those projects. It’s not that much budget really and at the end of the day they know it’s good advertising for very little work on their behalf. I mean most of the time I take care of pretty much everything myself.
So they just give you some money for the filmers once the project is finished?
At least this time that`s pretty much the case.
How much do they get each? Like let’s say this Dennis Ludvig guy that filmed most of the new part?
I don’t know man. I try and get as much as I can out of my sponsors for them and if that’s not enough then I’ll just give him some stuff of mine or sort something out…
‘
Sort something out’ as in give him some of your own money?
Yeah I guess. That would kind of suck because of how much work I put in myself for free but if I have to I’ll do it. If someone’s job is filming and they aren’t getting the money they need to live then something has to be done. I want everybody to be happy with it in the end.
Switch frontside flip. Photo: Pierre Prospero.
Do you get any money? Like a bonus or something?
Me? I don’t get shit my friend. I’m happy when I’m able to pay the filmers. Well let’s see, maybe I’ll get some incentives or something… But for the actual work: nope.
What about the editing? Do you always have to do that yourself then?
Lately yeah… If there’s barely enough for the filmers I’m not going to hire someone to do that.
How do you find that?
I like editing but it’s hard to watch your clips over and over again and still like them. It’s just harder to be objective about yourself… That last part I filmed for Kingpin, I haven’t watched it since I sent over the final version.
Are there any weird requirements for the release of this one?
Like for the previous one I’d like it to be dark outside when it drops. Don’t ask me why… I’d also like for it to be downloadable.
Frontside half-cab flip. Photo: Alex Braza.
Working on projects like these must be so time consuming… When you aren’t out skating or editing what do you enjoy?
Tons of stuff! Hanging out with my lady, music, boxing, hanging out with animals, nature…
Boxing?! Sick tell me about that.
Well I think I watch by far more boxing videos than skate videos.
Do you watch them to get hyped to skate sometimes?
Yeah a lot! There’s one thing in boxing I really admire, it’s the way they approach their career. Skaters often think it’s cool to be constantly fucked up, go to all the parties and live the rock star lifestyle whilst trying to skate super gnarly stuff really well. It’s all good if it works for them because of course partying is fun, but I personally have to stay a bit focused. A can go out, drink and skate the next day but in the long term, it’s better if I stay focused. I like taking care of myself to really try my best at stuff.
So you draw inspiration from their attitude.
Yeah I find it really inspiring. The boxers that I look up to all have this same gnarly, inner wild side (probably one of the reasons why they are doing it) but at the same time they are super disciplined. Because boxing is different: if you party for a month it’s going to show up in your next fight. Take Mike Tyson for instance, he was the fucking gnarliest but that one time he went to China to fight that Buster Douglas guy who wasn’t suppose to stand a chance, he took it too easy. He went out the night before, drinks, girls, coke etc. and the guy knocked him out! Anyway that’s what motivates me. I also love how much they actually go for it, because that’s what I like in skateboarding. I love seeing guys really push themselves. Like with Flo Marfaing’s nollie crook down that kinked hubba in Paris (at Le Dome). Do you know the story behind that one? He tried it, couldn’t get it so had to fly home. When he was home he dreamt he was doing it so he booked a flight straight back when he woke up and got it! That’s the shit I find inspiring: really believing in a trick like that and getting it no matter what it takes.
That’s probably why you’re so dedicated to the cause. What would it take for you to decide to move on to something else?
I don’t know man, I still feel good! As I said I’m healthy, I live a boxer’s life, not a skater’s life…haha… Then again I don’t know, you tell me. If after this part you think my shit’s not good enough then maybe I’ll have to face it and accept that I’m not on the level anymore.
Haha, don’t be silly that’s not what I meant at all. And who are we to judge if your shit’s ‘good enough’ anyway?
Well, it would really suck if something stopped me from doing this for as long as I can. I feel like I still have a lot left to do in skating. I also don`t have too many responsibilities at the moment. If you get a kid or two or someone in your family gets really ill then that changes everything. Suddenly you might need to start making real money to take care of shit, but it’s not the case for me right now. And even if so, I believe I would always find my way.
Coming back to what you were saying earlier about one day not skating at the right ‘level’. Do you not think it takes a lot more than just skating on a highest level to be marketable these days?
I don’t know man; I think I’m marketable. I know kids like me. In fact I’m going to take this opportunity to thank all the locals from all the places where I’ve filmed for this video. They’ve all been really supportive by showing me all their spots, welcoming me to their houses, being super kind… I’ve been getting a lot of love and respect from the streets so I’d like to give a shout out to those people. I’m sure they know who they are.
Backside flip. Photo: Gabriel Engelke.
Okay I wasn’t trying to say you weren’t marketable. Hmm… What do you think of Magenta? Do you understand that some of those guys are pro for instance?
Yeah, I think it’s good that there are brands and riders out there reminding us of the original purpose of skating: being in the streets and having fun. Sometimes we forget that that’s what it’s about. I like that their videos aren’t about putting down the heaviest bangers.
I feel like there are two big trends in skating at the moment: one is super focused on high level skating, where people actually go to the skatepark and train. They’ll practice a trick on the park rail then go and do it down the ‘street’ rail right next to the park. They really approach it like a sport – like the whole Nyjah/Street League movement. That I do respect because you can say what you want but the kid takes a lot of shit from everyone and still manages to get up from heavy slams to push the limits of what can be done. Then again that side of skating doesn’t seem quite as free to me.
I guess you don’t really fit into that category do you? You don’t skate skateparks.
Not very often, no. Don’t get me wrong it’s fine to practice tricks; it’s just that I love the feeling of being in the streets and showing up at a spot I’ve never seen before. Coming up with an idea for it and trying it is the best feeling. I like the intuitive part of it. I think if you are too concentrated on training certain tricks for certain spots that gets lost a bit.
So what you are saying is that out of the two you feel closer to the intuitive Magenta trend than the rehearsed Street League trend of skating? Interesting.
I don’t know yeah maybe. I do think it’s good that people portray skateboarding in this way. Although I don’t know if you’ve ever seen me do a no comply but I suck at that shit. I’m not really into that stuff.
I do love pushing myself, skating hard. I’m not trying to break records or something, it has nothing to do with that. People that don’t know me may think that but that’s really what I enjoy. I like doing a front nose down a fourteen stair, I really do. I’m not trying to impress anyone with this shit I just like it. I need that stuff. Maybe I’m addicted to adrenaline or whatever but that’s just the way it is. It goes well with me.
Backside nosebluntslide in Geneva. Ph. Stephan Zanette

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 19, 2019
Wake me up before you Momo
Photography by Rich West
Words by Daryl Dominguez
We drank the Khukri Rum, the Everest beer and the millet Raksi. We indulged in the local cuisine – smashed the momos and infinite refills of dal bhat. We dove head first into Nepali crust shouting ‘ONE-TEN!’ at the top of our lungs, navigating the vast wonder of the Nepali landscape in an on-road vessel, 12 people deep. Did I mention Helena got smoked in the face? The good times rolled in in abundance, but this, quite frankly, is beside the point.
Jordan Thackeray, frontside 50-50 grind, Chitwan.
We, as skateboarders, are interconnected. Whether we are intellectually conscious of this or not, we all grasp and share an intrinsic value for this wooden toy. It quite literally shapes our lives. Skateboarding is an all encompassing, unifying family – regardless of age, sex, gender or background.
SkatePal
,
Skateistan
,
Indigo Youth Movement
and
Make Life Skate Life
to name but a few, are physical manifestations aiming to instrumentally share this unifying love for skateboarding to enrich lives – from everywhere around the face of this mysterious, crazy planet, from Morocco to Myanmar and Nepal to Palestine. Through that basic compassion our circle can only get bigger. How sick is that?
Daryl Dominguez, ollie one foot, Kathmandu.
What we wanted to do in Nepal and how this incredible journey of a trip came together is nothing more than an extension of this ever-growing collective consciousness. To truly understand one’s blessings and then to pass those blessings on is a karmic way of life. Our compassion to do some good for our fellow man is what brought us all together. Our little ‘One-ten’ family (Editor’s note: One-ten is short for 110%) came into inception following a few fleeting conversations between Stu Smith and I. From there, the circle blossomed and infused the Lovenskate/Skate Nepal family tree, with Vans laying strong support at the roots. Our tree flourished thanks to its branches of support from Carhartt WIP and a whole host of UK distributors and generous human beings. It’s every single one of us uniting that ignited this fire of good will, each of us components of the macrocosm, contributing in our own way to the vast expanse of the skate community and beyond. Everyone from the people at House of Momo, to everyone that bought T-shirts, donated funds and old gear and everyone that spread the word and showed us love. Big up yourselves. It was always a family affair. Let this be known.
Jordan Thackeray, Smith stall, Kathmandu.
The premise of the trip was simple: see how far we could spread that circle of skateboarding across Nepal. To simply spread the stoke of skateboarding nationwide, to run some events at the newly built skateparks in Kathmandu and Pokhara (built by Make Life Skate Life) and get the skaters together. To unite the community, bring some tunes, bring some hype, ignite the session, nourish some seeds and plant some new ones. In no order whatsoever, along for the ride were Tom Delion, Samu Karvonen, Lucy Adams, Aaron (O’leary) Wilmot, Alex Hallford, Jordan Thackeray, Stu Smith, Helena Long and myself with Rich West shooting photos and Sirus F Gahan wielding a video camera with utmost precision and mastery. We also had Nepali stealth assassin Milan Shah Thakuri acting as translator/guide/legend throughout our journey. Instead of boring you with details, I’d rather let the Nepali skaters give you an idea of how skateboarding shaped their lives in their respective social, cultural and political context.
Tom Delion, wallie, Chitwan.
Perhaps, with a little shift in perspective, these testimonials will realign your perceptions of skateboarding and perhaps ground them in an elevated state of gratitude and appreciation. They may bring you closer to grasping that powerful, ineffable beauty that skateboarding seems to have embedded in us: that visceral feeling in our heart and guts when anybody asks us why we ride a skateboard. The answer always seems to be right at the tip of the tongue, yet no words can ever truly do it justice… Perhaps skateboarding’s true beauty is infinite and we’ll spend a lifetime unveiling and articulating its many layers. Or maybe I’m just over-romanticising it. Is anyone with me? 110, let’s go.
Deepika Srestha, 15, Kathmandu:
Skateboarding connects people. I’ve been skateboarding for one year and the skatepark here in Kathmandu has allowed me to make friends and learn from people from all over the world. All my friends revolve around the skatepark. It’s where I feel at home. The role of women in Nepali society is still very domesticated. We are expected to cook and to clean, I want to cut that tradition. Skateboarding liberates me and allows me to do that. It gives me hope that there is more to life than that. I have met skateboarders from all over the world thanks to the skatepark – so many inspirational people. Candy Jacobs and Helena (Long) have inspired and taught me so much. Helena taught me to ‘never give up’, and keep on trying no matter how many times you fall. She was battered and bruised, had stitches in her head and ripped her hand open, but was still skating, as hard as she could. She was still there teaching us tricks and encouraging us to participate in the best trick jams. That was so inspiring for me. Skateboarding is quite a male-dominated sport in Nepal, I don’t mean this in a bad way, but there are way more boys that skate than girls. In Nepali culture it’s not normal for girls to be so physically active, it is even slightly looked down upon. Because of this I feel quite intimidated, like I’m doing something wrong. Helena’s encouragement to get involved showed me that we aren’t separate. We can all skate together. She helped me feel less segregated, more confident and more motivated. Without the skatepark here in Kathmandu, I wouldn’t have started skating. It is my community. I wouldn’t have the friends I have and it would be hard to imagine life being any different.
Jordan Thackeray, frontside blunt, Pokhara.
Milan Shah-Thakuri, 24, Koteshor, Kathmandu:
Skateboarding helped me deal with pain: to understand pain, deal with pain and even accept pain. In life, you will always encounter pain and struggle. We can never truly stop it; it’s part of life. We can only change our approach to it. Skateboarding helped me do that. As skateboarders we put ourselves through pain, but for a higher purpose. Not many people understand this; it’s kind of crazy, actually, for normal people. Going through pain is inevitable with skateboarding, but coming through the other side victorious is an incredible feeling. Pain in other areas of your life doesn’t need to be any different. You always come through the other side. Skateboarding helped me see the purpose in pain. It helped me accept pain as inevitable and taught me how to deal with it. Pain is actually essential; it is how we grow as people.
I’ve been skating for five and a half years, before Nepal had any skateparks or skate spots. Before it came into my life I was lost: getting drunk all the time, doing drugs, getting into negative friend groups. Skateboarding gave me direction. I had this idea that the only way out of that struggle was to find a job, eventually earn enough to help my family, perhaps get married then have children and start a family. When I found skateboarding, my whole life changed. The way I saw everything changed. I got introduced to this community and have seen it grow. I met people like Ram (C Koirala), Jordan (Thackeray) and Daryl (Dominguez) among many others – a lot of people that influenced me in really positive ways. I was fortunate enough to get sponsored (the first sponsored skateboarder in Nepal) and travel to India and Thailand – to experience competing and travelling and just being a skate rat. The opportunities that skateboarding gave me have really helped me grow. Now my entire life is skateboarding. I went from the person that I was to the person that I am now: from having a narrow view of life to having purpose. I cannot even express how grateful I am. Skateboarding has shaped me and from my experiences it can do the same for many others. I want to help create these opportunities here in Nepal, because if I don’t, then who will?
Ph. Rich West
Ram C Koirala, 36, Lakeside, Pokhara:
I got into skateboarding in 1994 when I was 11 years old. A western traveller gave me his skateboard as a gift before he left. Back then there wern’t any skateparks and hardly any smooth roads, no facilities at all. There were just a few roads in my hometown that I could skate. There were no other skateboarders; I was the only skateboarder in Nepal for a very long time. Skateboarding for me, especially when I started, was quite a lonely experience. I understand that skateboarding is such a powerful social activity, that connects and brings people together, but for me it was very personal. I would skate alone after school and just cruise and try and learn things. It was something I could enjoy on my own. I didn’t need a team like football or basketball; I could be independent and free. I didn’t have a skate community or anyone that I could relate to about skateboarding. Despite this, it still brought me fun and so many lasting life lessons. It taught me self-control and hard work and to keep pushing for what you want to achieve. Whether this is for a trick that you envision and wish to create, or a dream to move overseas and embrace new experiences, it makes no difference, they both require the same things: determination, hard work and self-control.
I moved to Australia as a student and lived there for five years. In this time I saw a country where skateboarding flourished and saw how powerful the skate community could be. It was after some time that I had a vision, a dream to give back to my home country. Many leave Nepal to migrate overseas in the hope of a better life, but for me, this felt like I was escaping. I was in Australia, making more money in a month than most Nepalis would make in five years, experiencing a life that
I never could have imagined, yet, something was missing. I realised that instead of escaping, I could learn, grow and then eventually return to Nepal – with something to give back. I had studied and worked in construction in Australia and had a passion for skateboarding, so over time it reached a point where I wanted to return to Nepal and a build skatepark. I started my own construction company a few years upon my return and built Nepal’s first skatepark with help from my Australian friend Lex and some local Nepali skaters in Lakeside. Nothing as big and well finished as the recent builds in Pokhara and Kathmandu, but it was something – something that brought the skaters together and to create and build. The main motivation for me was that I didn’t have a skate community growing up, or a skatepark, but if I built a skatepark the next generation can have that which I lacked as a kid. The dream was to build the facilities and create a positive community for the youth.
I think as you go through life and get older you begin to realise that life isn’t all about taking – you have to give back. Skateboarding was something I felt worthy of passing on.
Samu Karvonen, gap to backside lipslide, Pokhara.

================================================================================

BY admin  •  June 28, 2023
Bomb Hills, Not Countries:  Ukraine’s Skateboarders Keep on Pushing
Words and photography by Kris Parker
Russia’s war on Ukraine is entering its sixteenth month of brutality, destroying cities and ripping apart families in a trail of destruction that can be hard to comprehend if not directly experienced. A modern war, where one can order takeout over an app, stream your favorite movie online, and die in a missile or drone strike all in the same night. Status as a civilian offers little protection. The situation can seem absurd, with the maturity of technology outpacing the humanity of the aggressor. Of the paradoxes that war reveals, one that becomes apparent is that where there is pain, there is often resilience. But resilience is not infinite, and it requires nurturing.
For many members of Ukraine’s growing skateboarding community, skating offers a necessary, though temporary, refuge from a reality that can overwhelm the senses otherwise. War is stressful, but around the broken glass and rubble of destroyed buildings, Ukrainian skaters continue to push.
Mykhailo Tevkun, 31, awoke to the sound of rockets and their explosions in Kyiv on February 24th, 2022, as Russia launched its full-scale war. The head of the Ukrainian Skateboarding Association, the reality of the war quickly became apparent as Russian forces pushed into Bucha and Irpin, suburbs of Kyiv and not far from the home of his family.
Mykhailo Tevkun
“I went with friends to the occupied regions of Bucha and Irpin; they had asked me to fly a drone. I did not understand what was happening before I arrived, but once there I understood I cannot spend much time here. There were many explosions, dead bodies, and military guys digging trenches,” he recalled on a recent Saturday in Kharkiv.
“That was a really critical point for me, because I understood the war was much closer to me, and if Irpin fell, we were next. I went home and told my parents we need to move to western Ukraine.”
After moving to the relative safety of Lviv, Tevkun spent the next nine months organizing Ukraine’s skateboarding community through social media and in-person events, before moving back to Kyiv after the winter.
“We are really into building community, growing skateboarding as a sport, developing our scene so we can create opportunities for Ukrainian skateboarders,” he says. Tevkun has been a key organizer of Ukraine’s skate scene for the last eight years and emphasized the importance of having a community to count on during wartime.
“Skateboarding makes me feel happy, especially when I’m doing this with my friends, and building a big community is crucial right now, because we should be united. If we are not united, we will be defeated very soon.”
Tevkun can name at least five skateboarders who have taken up arms in defense of the country. After almost a year and a half of continuous fighting, Russian forces have been pushed back from large areas of Ukraine that were taken in the opening months of full-scale war, providing for some limited degree of normalcy to return to the two largest cities Kyiv and Kharkiv, despite frequent missile and drone attacks.
Kharkiv in particular was subject to some of the most violent attacks of the war, with districts such as Saltivka littered with collapsed and burnt out multi-story apartment buildings. Russian soldiers managed to enter parts of the city, where fierce fighting ensued. After a successful Ukrainian push last September however, Russian forces are no longer stalking the city’s outskirts.
The relatively improved security situation in Kharkiv allowed Tevkun and Kharkiv’s local skaters to host a self-organized contest in mid-May called the “Counterattack Contest,” in reference to the Ukrainian military’s anticipated spring counteroffensive. The event brought out around 100 skaters to Kharkiv’s central skate spot, the Kharkiv State Academic Opera and Ballet Theatre, and finished at a local skatepark, complete with prizes and good times for all.
“The scene here is really cool, and people are always doing things to help the community grow. There’s a lot of new faces here and I’ve been coming here for four years,” explained a 16-year-old local named Nikita during a session at the theatre. Nikita and his family stayed in Kharkiv during the worst of the attacks, eventually becoming accustomed to the sound of explosions.
Nikita and Svetlana
“I haven’t stopped skating because of the war. At first the bombing was scary, but now I am used to it. We are all used to it,” he says.
“Of course, stress exists but when I skate, I can forget about everything.”
The idea that skateboarding offers a healthy way to manage stress has become the subject of increasing
academic
interest in recent years, with the University of Southern California producing a report in collaboration with Tony Hawk’s foundation The Skatepark Project. Though perhaps always implicitly known to those that skate, the 2020 study has contributed to the growing
recognition
of the
positive
effects skateboarding can have on our mental health, with reduced rates of depression being a common outcome.
“Skateboarding has absolutely helped us deal with stress,” explained Svetlana, a 19-year-old Kharkiv local who started skating three years ago. “Doing the tricks, communicating with our friends, all this helps us here,” she said.
“Skateboarding makes you feel better, it protects you from all the bad thoughts and you can just live in the moment and not be focused on the negatives,” added Max, also a 19-year-old Kharkiv local. “The war is definitely strengthening the skateboarding community here, there’s just no other chance.”
Max
Despite the war, the scene in Kharkiv is one of the most developed in Ukraine, widely known for its good skate spots and friendly community. One local photographer who now spends her time documenting this culture is 19-year-old Anastasia.
“I like to document street culture, and specifically skateboarding because it’s cool to see how everyone supports each other and is happy when someone lands a trick. I want to capture as many happy moments as I can because sometimes I worry there will be no more happy moments.”
“Last year I couldn’t even leave my apartment because it was too dangerous,” she tells me.
Anastasia is a Kharkiv native from the heavily attacked Saltivka district who has stayed throughout the war.
“Skateboarding helps people to forget about the air sirens, missile attacks, and all the other bad, and gives people a chance to just chill,” she explained.
Anastasia
The chance to just chill can feel like a luxury at times. This particular day in Kharkiv was marked with beautiful weather and the spring bloom of flowers around the city. The sessions lasted all day and for a while the war seemed to fade away. But later that night, sometime around midnight, a Russian missile slammed into the city, producing a thunderous boom that echoed into the night. Fortunately, this time no one was injured in what has become a regular occurrence for residents of the historic city.
“I’m not a politician, but I can tell you that the Russian army is fucked up. They want to kill me, just a regular skateboarder,” Tevkun explained.
Skateboarding obviously cannot stop Russian bombs from falling on Ukraine, but when someone is doing their best to destroy you and your way of life, simply existing can be an act of resistance. In this way, by providing a space for youth to momentarily escape the war, skating is helping to sustain the resilience required to live through it. This idea is at the heart of Tevkun’s efforts to build Ukraine’s skateboarding community.
“I like skating for the sense of freedom, and this idea has gained more significance for me since the war started, because skateboarding is freedom and Ukraine is fighting for freedom,” Tevkun explained during a break in the contest.
“Everyone sees skateboarding a little differently. For some it’s a sport, a hobby, or a lifestyle, but for everyone it is happiness; pure happiness and pure freedom. This is why we are here today.”
The war in Ukraine shows little sign of ending in the near future. Until that welcomed day arrives, keep those skating under the missiles in mind.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 24, 2017
Levi’s Skateboarding Triangle spot event – CPH
This past Friday Levi’s Skateboarding hosted an event at the infamous triangle spot in Copenhagen. It was Day 3 of of the CPH Open 2017 and the forecast that day was not ideal for skateboarding. After a wet, but merry boat ride to the destination we were first treated to beers by Levi’s at the Mikkeller Baghaven brewery and shown the new Levi’s Skateboarding Autumn/Winter 2017 collection. It was pretty wet out still, and I think we drank beers with the notion that the skate event would be rained out. But lo and behold it dried up and the skate event was on!
?@levisskateboarding? @copenhagenopen @luanomatriz @joorgesimoes @pufftuffandskatestuff @flomirtain @tjrogers @sebowalker
A post shared by Free Skateboard Magazine (@freeskatemag) on
Jul 22, 2017 at 5:20am PDT
The triangle spot was built a couple years ago by the Levi’s Spot Delivery crew and it skates like a half DIY spot/half professionally made skatepark. With the rain coming and going some skateboarding finally happened. Sebo Walker, Madars Apse and TJ Rogers weren’t afraid to skate the course when it was entirely wet. The contest began slightly behind schedule when everything dried up. There was loads of ripping, but Luan Oliveira, Tommy Fynn, Franky Villani, Jorge Simoes and Vincent Milou were the ones that made it to the finals. Luan took first place honours and then the park swarmed with locals and visitors for a rammed session. Some people jumped in the river, some went into the portable sauna, and most everyone drank  beer or two.  Then it was time to jump in the boat again to head to the afterparty. (Sit down, sit down, sit down!) The Levi’s afterparty was at one of Copenhagen’s most famous clubs, the Chateau Motel, where we all drank and danced the night away. Thank you Levi’s for the great event, the beer and continued support of skateboarding.
Check out the photo gallery by Sam Ashley below:
View Gallery | 13 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  March 25, 2016
Mika Germond Interview
Mika Germond, Paris. Ph. Maxime Verret
Before we get into this I should probably give you guys a bit of context… The first thing you need to know about our friend Mika here is that he has quite an unconventional job for a sponsored skater: he’s a personal trainer. The second is that until relatively recently, karate, pole-vaulting and a wealth of other athletic disciplines were higher on his agenda than skateboarding.
So why does a man with such a passion for ‘traditional’ sports decide to focus his energy on an activity like ours? Could it be the absence of ‘rules?’ Is it the culture that surrounds it? Or is it the fact that through video parts and photos in magazines you get to create something that lasts?
We shouldn’t ignore what sets skateboarding apart from other sports and Mika’s fresh perspective on the matter served as a healthy reminder of that.
Interview by Arthur Derrien
All right buddy? What have you been up to lately? Working a lot?
Yeah I’m good, thanks. Not been up to much actually. I don’t really have that many regular clients but since I’m the one going to their homes the money’s decent enough to get by.
What are your clients like?
All pretty cool really. People think that I just deal with meatheads and girls that want better butts, but it’s not like that at all. My clients are just regular people, often parents that don’t have time to exercise because of the full time job/kid combo.
You were also a sponsored skater’s personal trainer for a bit as well right? How was that?
Yeah little
Robin Bolian
(Antiz and Vans Europe rider). It was a bit weird but kind of better in a way. With my current clients the work I do is really just getting them into shape. With Robin it was interesting because it was sport specific and he was already really fit enough for me to properly work him.
Ollie, Paris. Ph. Maxime Verret
And you know exactly what muscles to train for skateboarding.
Yeah. Although a lot of my work was just rebalancing the distribution of his muscle mass. Skateboarding is such an asymmetric activity. When you’re always slamming and putting all your weight on one side of your body it can affect your growth. We don’t want him to be all crooked by the time he turns 25…
Plus maybe it’ll help him get better at skating switch, haha.
Yeah who knows… Maybe thanks to me he’ll stop skating bowls and start skating like Shane O’Neil.
And how did that whole thing come about in the first place?
His dad approached me.
Feeble grind, Lyon. Ph. Maxime Verret
Did working with him make you consider specialising in skateboarders? Like a personal trainer for pros?
I don’t really think there’s enough of a market for me to just have skateboarders as clients. Unless I move to LA or something… Plus I don’t really know how I’d feel about being responsible for creating an army of super athletic skatepark killers… It’s not really the style of skating I’m into. It could be a good way to make money but I wouldn’t want to put my name to it.
“You see that guy over there? If you pay him enough he can make you the next Nyjah!”
Don’t be silly, haha. You know that with skating it’s all about technique. Some of the best skaters in the world have never had any proper physical training…
Wallie, Lyon. Ph. Loic Benoit
It does definitely help though right?
Yeah of course, although I’d say mainly for stamina and absorbing impact/slamming. Some skaters look like they are going to crumble every time they land a trick and then you’ve got guys like Nyjah that’ll jump down massive gaps without flinching. There’s a reason for this.
So you think a lot of pros have personal trainers?
Oh yeah. All the ‘athlete’ style pros like Pedro Barros, Nyjah and
Chris Cole definitely have them.
Before you properly got into skating a lot of your time was spent doing ‘traditional’ sports. What made you decide to start investing more of it into skating?
Yeah for a long time I did a lot of karate, synchronised swimming and athletics (that I still do once a week). I don’t know… Possibly that there’s more to skateboarding than doing tricks that feel good. I like getting a good photo or a clip. I like creating stuff that I think ‘looks nice’ with a filmer or a photographer. I don’t think I’d be as into it if it were just a physical activity. When you start to really discover skateboarding you do more than just realise the trick possibilities are endless, you learn about the wealth of culture and history that surrounds it. I really don’t understand how kids like Aurélien Giraud (the kid from Lyon that just won Tampa Am) can be so motivated to skate without acknowledging that dimension of it. It’s ignoring what sets us apart from all the other physical activities.
Tailblock to fakie, Paris. Ph. Guillaume Perimony
Is there anything you miss about those sports?
Well the only thing is that all the ‘sports’ I do now are self-taught: in skateboarding you obviously teach yourself virtually everything and at the moment I don’t have a coach when I practise athletics. It’s just like with everything else in life these days: if you need to learn about something you just go online and read about it or watch a tutorial. I’m a bit tired of it… I enjoy having someone knowledgeable show me exactly how something is supposed to be done – it’s reassuring.
Do you think that could apply to skateboarding though?
I don’t know, maybe. In the suburbs where I grew up skating there were no other skaters. I skated for a long time before seeing a magazine, a video or even another skater. At the beginning everything I’d learn would be from randomly trying to do different stuff with my feet when I’d be standing on my board… It was tough. So when a skate camp (based in Marseille) recently invited me and some Antiz riders to hang out with the kids and I saw how stoked they were I thought to myself: ‘I could have really enjoyed getting tips on certain tricks like that’.
Any interesting parallels between skateboarding and some of the sports we mentioned earlier? I bet pole vaulting feels incredible…
Yeah but it’s so frustrating, almost even more than skateboarding. It usually takes you about 10 tries to get an attempt you are actually stoked on, sort of like if you are trying a trick down a rail or something. Only in skating it’s different because if you get sick of struggling to land something hard you can always have fun with another trick – something you know you can do every go. In pole vaulting you don’t have that option, there isn’t ‘another trick’ you can try. It’s just you and the pole. I once went through a six-month phase of not even being able to ‘plant’. I’d take my run up, prepare for the jump and pussy out at the last minute. Something like that is so draining psychologically.
50-50 grind, Paris. Ph. Maxime Verret
How’s riding for
Antiz
? Are you going to have anything in their new video?
Yeah it’s really good. Travelling with those guys is so fun… They started giving me and three other guys (Robin Bolian, Uryan Rodet and Quentin Boillon) from Lyon boards virtually at the same time as well so we’ve got a little crew going. I get along with them really well and like me they all prefer going on missions to staying at Hotel De Ville all day, which is cool too.
Regarding the video I think there will be a ‘flowbo’ part with all four of us. Although I’m not exactly sure what they’ve got planned for Robin, he might be getting his own section. He’s on another level that kid…
What?! So he’s gotten on the real team before you even though you’re the one that trained him up to become the ripper he is today?
I guess, haha. But at least deep down I know that if he’s that good at skating, on Antiz and winning all these comps it’s only thanks to me, haha.
Well I can’t wait to see what you, your ex-client and the rest of the team come through with for
this video
. Cheers for the chat!
Boardslide up to transfer in Lyon. Ph. Loic Benoit

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 13, 2020
7 Day Project – 47 Days Later
Tyler Surrey, switch frontside kickflip.
For issue 31 of the mag eight European photographers were tasked with coming up with a concept for an article that could be shot between the 25th of May and the 1st of June1 2020, just as Covid-19 lockdown restriction measures were starting to ease… Below is Gerard Riera’s article with some words by Tyler Surrey.
As the Covid-19 cases began to increase and spread rapidly, it was announced that Spain would go on a two-week lockdown starting March 15. We reacted how most skateboarders react to news: ‘Let’s go skate!’ So off to Sants Station we went for one last session before the countrywide attempt to ease the spike in cases/deaths was implemented. It was a typical session like any other: joyful, fun, and carefree. The topic of conversation, however, wasn’t as typical as the session. It was somewhat ominous and full of uncertainty. Once again, as skateboarders we reacted how most skateboarders would. We had a discussion about theoretical scenarios, sprinkled with light-hearted jokes and funny ideas about how to handle the next two weeks inside. But from my recollection, nobody mentioned the possibility of: ‘What if it’s longer than two weeks?’
Tyler Surrey, frontside 180 heelflip
As we wound down the session, everyone said their temporary farewells, and we all went home. That evening, I optimistically contemplated what was in store for the next two weeks. There’s a wide variety of ways to react to a mandatory lockdown: debauchery, productivity, and everything in between. We chose to start with debauchery. In the beginning of the lockdown, we held a few ‘illegal’ barbecues and house gatherings with close friends as we killed time and brain cells with alcohol. After a few days of this, we got it out of our system and realised that this isn’t the way to go. The second week in we mellowed out and began to prepare ourselves mentally and physically for the release date by eating well and exercising at the house. That’s when rumours started to spread of a two-week extension of the lockdown.
Gustav Tønnesen, switch backside 180 kickflip.
Nisse (Ingemarsson) and Martin (Sandberg) had rented a flat here in Barcelona for two months to film and shoot photos for various skate projects. After the two-week extension was publicly announced, they decided to look for tickets to go back to Sweden where the country had a different approach to tackling the growing pandemic. There was no lockdown, and the country essentially decided to proceed with everyday life, taking into account the respect of social distancing and keeping gatherings to less than 500 people. We teased and guilt tripped them in a friendly manner for leaving, while secretly being a little jealous of them for having this option. As they made it back to their homeland, and we saw Instagram clips of them out skating the very next day, our words changed from ‘I can’t believe you’re bailing’ to ‘I can’t believe we’re still stuck here.’
Gabriel Engelke, ollie up to no-comply frontside wallride.
Although it’s not ideal to be stuck inside while spring and perfect skate weather finally arrive, it isn’t the worst thing that can happen. In fact, it couldn’t have happened at a better time in our history. All the information in the world is available at your fingertips via the Internet. So to complain about boredom feels tantamount to a spoiled kid complaining that his new Ferrari is yellow instead of red. There’s plenty to keep entertained with: everything from watching shows/movies, to looking up new cooking recipes, to looking at hilarious memes, to learning about any subject that sparks your interest. This became the new daily norm in our household during the next couple of weeks as the Spanish government continued to keep extending the lockdown period each time it was about to end.
Ulph Andersson, tailblockslide
One day out of nowhere, me and Tom Snape received a message from Gustav (Tønnesen) saying we all might have ‘it’. (Me, Tom, and Gustav live together) Before lockdown started, friends of Gustav’s girlfriend had tested positive for Covid-19, and, as viruses do, it spread to his girlfriend, which eventually reached Gustav and our house. Shortly after, me and Gustav started to show some symptoms. He experienced complete loss of smell/taste for 10 days while I developed a mild chest cold and slight shortness of breath for five days. None of this felt severe enough to panic about, and then my chest cold dissipated and Gus’ smell/taste started to come back. We joked about how we defeated the virus with very minor symptoms and continued on with our new daily ‘routine’ in the house. But before Gustav fully recovered, he came down with a strong fever that lasted for about six days and cold symptoms that lingered for about a week after breaking the fever. As soon as he started to recover, I came down with the same thing. I would describe the symptoms as somewhat intensified cold/fever symptoms that seemed to last a little longer than normal. During this time, Spain would only allow you to test for Covid-19 if you were showing life threatening symptoms such as severe pneumonia. And, whereas pneumonia never even crossed my mind, I went to the doctor after breaking my fever to make sure I didn’t need antibiotics for the white spots on my swollen throat. They assumed I had Covid-19 based on my symptoms, so they tested my throat and X-rayed my chest even after checking my breathing and saying everything was fine (I imagine it was protocol). After a few hours they came back with the throat test being negative and a diagnosis for minor bacterial pneumonia in one lung. I ended up receiving antibiotics for my lung and not for my throat. After one week of antibiotics, a follow up X-ray showed my acute lung build-up had disappeared. So, despite not officially getting tested for Covid-19, it’s safe to assume Gus and me had it.
Tyler Surrey, nose stall to Dicola grind.
You may be wondering, ‘so what happened to Tom Snape? More importantly, why doesn’t he have any skate photos in the article? Did Gus and Tyler ditch him to secretly go out and shoot photos?’ The answer is no. While we were displaying an array of Covid-19 symptoms, Tom was having intermittent stomach pains. They got so bad at one point he went to the doctor, who misdiagnosed him and sent him home with instructions: stop drinking orange juice and coffee. We were joking how while it appeared me and Gus had gotten the worst of it, Tom escaped essentially unscathed other than stomach cramps. The only problem was that when we fully recovered, Tom continued to have stomach pains. It got to the point where he couldn’t take it anymore and went back to the doctor. That evening he never returned back home. The next day passed without hearing from him again. With all the corona panic and unease in the air, we started to get extremely worried. After physically going to the local hospital, and calling 10 others, we couldn’t figure out his whereabouts or status. Now you may be wondering, ‘did the Covid-19 virus manifest itself differently in Tom’s body? Did the virus take on a new mutation and bypass the flu symptoms, directly attacking his internal organs?’ That answer is also no. In fact, this had nothing to do with coronavirus. After two days of no news, the hospital finally contacted us to let us know where he was. Coincidentally, he had developed appendicitis and, because of the misdiagnosis a week before, his appendix had burst sending a wave of infectious puss through his abdomen and into his bloodstream. He was hospitalised, put on intravenous antibiotics and had the most complicated appendectomy the surgeon had ever performed. In case you were wondering if he recovered, he’s back to two coffees a day and recently bought a new orange juice press.
Gustav Tønnesen, switch 360 flip
When you see reports from corporate and mainstream media outlets, it’s easy to fall for their fear-driven, sensationalism-style reports focusing on death tolls, overcrowded hospitals and ‘no place to bury all the bodies.’ This is a tactic to receive the most views/ratings using horrific titles as ‘click bait.’ With no intentions of downplaying the severity of this situation, it felt as if the news painted an apocalyptic picture in the beginning and, at least in the US, analysts grossly overestimated the predicted number of deaths to come. Granted they didn’t have all the time in the world to make assessments on the situation. But in classic mainstream media fashion, they magnified the negative while leaving out the positive. In a few reports they even exemplified a ‘healthy middle age’ person dying from the virus. But that was one case compared to the countless healthy people of all ages that recovered fine. We shouldn’t stop living because of this potential threat. If they showed examples of people getting hit by a car or dying of lung cancer, would we still drive and smoke? The answer is yes. We do know these risks and we still drive and smoke. The best thing one can do is take the necessary precautions recommended by experts who have a good understanding of the situation. But equally important, don’t live in fear, practice good hygiene, and, coronavirus or not, maintain a healthy immune system by eating right and exercising.
Alex Powell, nose manual nollie flip.
On the other end of the spectrum, there has been conspiracy theorist-type claims that the virus is fake, etc. Although it’s not threatening our entire existence as some media outlets made it sound, it is, at the very least, real. There’s a lot of information being thrown at us from every angle and it’s hard to know who to listen to and what to believe. When it comes to events and mainstream media, my advice is to find alternative sources of news, do research and use critical thinking and logic. After all you have access to all the information at your fingertips. Don’t be a brainless sheep going out and panic buying all the toilet paper in the supermarket.
P.S. It was pretty hard to shoot these photos after not being able to skate for 47 days and then only being allowed out in Barcelona from 6–10am and 8–11pm.
– Tyler Surrey
Manu Mayr, wallie 180 to fakie nosegrind 180 out.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 29, 2017
Vladimir Film Festival 2017
Skate Fažana!
Photos by Tomaž Šantl
Words by
Aymeric Nocus
If you aren’t familiar with the yearly
Vladimir Film Festival
already, sorry to say you’ve been sleepin’ and slippin’. Now one of the main underground institutions in modern skateboarding altogether, all the while standing out as a commercial oddity being 100% ran by the locals out of their personal pockets and Istrian hearts first and foremost, you’d be hard-pressed to run into a local event with better curated exhibitions, thereby attracting the attention of guests all showing up in a 3000-inhabitants fishermen’s village (and former military zone complete with fortresses) from all over the world.
Ferry to the Brioni islands screening.
This year’s
edition
(taking place Sept. 21-24) was no exception and, indeed, again hit remarkably strong, not just as far as the quality of the program, the impeccable schedule, or the dream-like holiday landscapes (if you’re a visitor) are concerned, but also in terms of popularity as guests from most continents ended up finding their way to Fažana and Pula, Croatia for a handful of days spent binge-watching independent skate videos and publications, studying photos, sharing approaches – exchanging. When they aren’t playing table tennis tournaments ’til 5 AM after screening skate films at former Yugoslavia president Tito’s private outdoor cinema, or stuck in an ale-induced vortex at Black Lady’s that is.
Brioni islands screening
For this 7th edition, Taufek Asmarak of Waxfeather visited the festival from Singapore, while Francisco Saco and Miguel Castro showed up straight from Costa Rica in order to play the former’s new full-length film,
Canasta
. Among other guests one could also spot NYC’s very own Connor Kammerer, accompanied by Zach Chamberlin from SF, and a now Antwerp-based Richard Hart; Rémi Luciani from France with a master copy of
Marseille Zoo 4
; George Toland, Joel Peck, Rich West, Joe O’Donnell as well as many more UK lads innit, tryin’ to get the best out of ‘a what must off tasted like a handful of olive oil-bathed and -nurtured sunny days of skateboarding around the city of Pula. Some members of Budapest’s private Rios club also got to shred in between two poor sightings of everybody’s barely digestable amount of ingested local pizza…
Jai Tanju’s Print Exchange
Other film screenings notably included Lucas Beaufort’s
Devoted
, Jim Craven’s
Island
filmed throughout Scotland and edited in four days just prior to the event, as well as Vantte Lindevall’s
Abkhazia
; but also productions such as the new Traffic Skateboards video
Look Left
, the latest Push Periodical
partial world tour
clip as well as a fresh Northern Co. Japan trip edit both put together by Zach Chamberlin, Anton Beliaev’s
O3epo
, Mihael Sandro’s
Kompa
, and more. Also this year’s artists behind the photo exhibitions were SF expat Nich Kunz, Olman Torres, as well as the aforementioned Taufek Asmarak who coincidentally left behind him, upon departure, the deck I’m actually skating right now – so thanks, Taufek. Connor K also ran a participative photo installation involving a projector, hashtags and launch ramps, and last but not least the locals dug up a location that hadn’t been in use for two decades, as to better exhibit a selection of 1000+ photos tangibly mailed to Jai Tanju over the course of the late 2000’s in the context of the Film Por Vida / Print Exchange program.
Zach Chamberlin, Richard Hart and Nikola Racan
What is there left to say besides how without the pure passion and insane inner drive, focus and expertise of the locals, led by August Senoa Skate Klub’s Nikola Racan (of
Solsticij
fame) and his crew, an event of such cultural caliber wouldn’t not just be the same, it most likely just wouldn’t exist altogether. In a context such as 2017 skateboarding riddled with endless debates over the Olympics, corporate shoe sponsors, insecurities and ‘fits’, their thing stands out as a fresh anomaly and makes for a major instance left to represent what made most of us fall in love with skateboarding in the first place, also resulting in a venue for likeminded people to meet and reconcile around a certain essence. Gimmicks are dying and it only took the most devoted out of 3000 inhabitants to hold ’em back.
Check out the gallery photos below by Blaž Turk & Tomaž Šantl:
View Gallery | 19 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 26, 2017
adidas x LLSB exhibition photo recap
This past Friday was the Long Live South Bank exhibition
Reclaration: The Journey Continues
in Hoxton at the Hoxton Basement. Along with the exhibition of photos of South Bank from the 1970s to the present there was the official release of the adidas x
LLSB
Campus Vulc 2 shoe. Proceeds from the sale of the shoes go to the LLSB campaign to
reclaim the old undercroft space
for use by
skateboarders
and the public. Please donate here:
www.llsbdonate.com
The adidas x LLSB shoes (+ jackets and sweaters) are available at
www.llsb.com/shop
Let’s get the old undercroft space back!
Our man Sam Ashley was there to capture the happenings in photographic form. Click below for the gallery pics.
View Gallery | 24 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 5, 2023
Jante – 5:36
All photography by Sam Ashley
Words by Axel Lindquist
‘The grateful man wants to favor another because he has been favored, as the vengeful man wants to inflict harm on another because he has been harmed himself.’ – A. D. M. Walker
Gratefulness is a strange experience:
‘We have laws here!’ the middle-aged man argues from his balcony.
Me and Nisse look at each other and burst into laughter.
If this man only knew; spend a week in Sweden and you’ll wish
The Purge
was real.
Hermann Stene, frontside boardslide, Vila Nova de Santo André
We give thanks (
Obrigado
is as far as our Portuguese will take us) and pack up. The spot wasn’t that fun anyway. Lisbon didn’t seem to have much better spots than Stockholm, generally, but back home we are left to either an indoor park prioritising family-sessions, or to garages covered with crusted asbestos.
Even though Sweden is six times the size of Portugal, in March there is nowhere you’ll find even a fraction of the serenity as the one experienced in the shade from a tree, in which we sit and poke fun at the silly people trying to fight with us. Aware that sleet is whipping sideways back home it is honestly hard to care about being kicked out, just like the pale sloppy beer served from a McDonald’s suddenly tastes like God’s nectar knowing that
Systembolaget
closed fifteen minutes ago.
Karsten Kleppan, frontside 50-50, Almada
The Jante crew has gotten some additional contributions on this trip. A booster-pack of
good energy containing David Jakinda, Lover Öhling, Hermann Stene and Karsten Kleppan, also meeting up with Heitor Da Silva and Tor Ström.
We make our way to the next spot, some grandiose hubba Hermann wants to skate. I catch myself absolutely satisfied, grateful even, just to watch the show, standing around trying out people’s trucks the whole day.
In Swedish we have the same word for
gratefulness, thankfulness and gratitude
, so I have no choice but to feel them all at the same time.
Vincent Huhta, ollie over to nose manual, Lisbon
In the evening we are all bushed from walking up hills and talking nonsense. A lot of skate but only the booster-crew getting clips. Honestly that couldn’t bother me less.
I am so grateful to get to share new memories with old friends and old memories with new friends, to get to lose myself in skateboarding.
I am grateful for the coins in my pocket, grateful for hash on the balcony, for books in bed, that I have people to miss back home.
I am grateful for the chance to stand around all day testing out people’s trucks.
Hermann Stene, frontside ollie, Almada
The next day it rains, and some rest is much needed after having to walk between all the spots that the Norwegians skate. No reason for dejection.
Gratefulness can be both an emotion and an attitude, and on this trip gratefulness expresses itself for me as a spontaneous and genuine emotion. So genuinely grateful for splashing around on slippery cobblestone looking at recognised spots.
I seem to be doing pretty alright, at least according to the Ted Talks, self-help books and such, addressing the way to a happy and fulfilling life. They all conclude that you won’t necessarily be grateful because you have a happy and fulfilling life, but the other way around, that you can become happy by practising gratefulness and gratitude. To value what you already have to be grateful for.
Martin Sandberg, noseslide, Vila Nova de Santo André
Despite the rain hindering our skating I’m grateful for the chance to listen to foreign languages, grateful for ​​Alvarinho grapes, grateful for how daft Nisse gets when he’s drunk.
If you’re satisfied, you’re doing it right, right?
I’m grateful just to get to stand around trying out people’s trucks, the whole time balancing between gratefulness and negligence.
When I’m awakened by the rain pattering on the windowsill for the second morning in a row I’m grateful to get to sleep some more.
They all claim in their Ted Talks that the road to a happy life is paved by gratefulness. So I practised that.
Hermann Stene, backside 50-50, Almada
Gratefulness can be both an emotion and an attitude. Sure gratefulness can occur spontaneously, but it’s also a tool, an ointment when life is itching.
I’m yet again grateful for the hash on the balcony. Yet again grateful to have people to long to. I’m grateful that I miss skateboarding. I’m grateful for sitting in peace and quiet on my bedside wondering what it’s all about.
My ointment seems to itch even worse.
All of a sudden
‘It’s not about getting what you want, but wanting what you’ve got.’
seems to rhyme with
‘ignorance is bliss’
.
Martin Sandberg, backside 180 nosegrind revert, Lisbon
I have promised
Free
at least one clip.
And I don’t seem to be the only one grappling with my gratitude. In passing one of us suddenly utters: ‘Imagine, 95% of all people don’t get to do what they like for a living. They all have to do some shit like working at McDonald’s.’
…
‘and a great number of those are just happy just to have a job’
, I’m thinking to myself. But I don’t say anything. Because I know my friend, and I understand that this was a cry for help more than anything else.
What he was really saying was, ‘I should be grateful; I should be happy for this.’
Just as other friends on this trip were stressing footy to the point of not skating at all. So very rationally grateful for the opportunity – unable to distil the stress this ‘opportunity’ is causing. Not being able to enjoy what they think they should be grateful for. Because we all understand that to be grateful is not enough.
David Jakinda, varial heelflip , Lisbon
A crucial part of gratefulness is to express it, if not in words then to manifest it in actions. To either repay the good that’s been done to you, or pass it on, or to make the most out of the opportunities you’ve been given.
We all do best in letting our gratefulness be a driving force, but here I see the
gratefulness-stress
expose itself. The fogginess between being satisfied with what you already have and wanting to ennoble what you’ve been given.
Gratefulness without direction is a potential source of stress, when it becomes indebtedness.
None of this ever seemed to be of any issue for the guys skating the most. They were too busy making the most out of
it.
Hermann Stene, backside nosebluntslide, Vila Nova de Santo André
I’m not going to solve the question of how to live a good fulfilling life. At least not here in this text. Just like I don’t know what is the best way to express gratitude. But if an honest attempt is enough then:
Free
–  I skated, I really did, and I’m so grateful for this trip, I really am. But you only have my words for it.
Obrigado.
Nisse and Fritte

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  February 19, 2020
Ibu Sangyan interview
Frontside lipslide nose scraper. All photos are shot by Gerard Riera in Barcelona for is interview in issue 21.
I still remember the first time I read Charles Bukowski’s poem about style… It made me think about why there are people with style and people without. Why is that? Where does style come from? Do you inherit it? Can you fake it? Does it depend on your physical constitution? How can some people have style opening
a can of sardines? I’ve never known where style comes from but one thing’s for sure: Ibu Sanyang has had style since the first day he stepped on a skateboard. Maybe you’ve never heard of Ibu before but it’s been ten years since that happened and his life has done nothing but get better and better since then. Also he’s about to be a dad… After his upcoming baby’s ultrasound scan I met up with him to have a chat and see how life is treating him.
Interview by Nico Cook Garcia
How did the ultrasound scan go? Do you know if it’s going to be a girl or
a boy?
Ibu Sangyan: The scan has been amazing, 17 minutes of footy, damn! It’s a girl and she’s almost ready. I’ve seen her move, blink, move her hands, her reactions, I’ve seen my face ha ha; it’s been incredible. This ultrasound scan has had nothing to do with the previous ones, the others were in black and white, and we couldn’t even imagine how the baby looked. It was something more intuitive. The other day was dope, I was watering the plants and I began to imagine her. It was like a dream, I could see her face and I saw her dancing to reggae. It was incredible! Watching the scan has been amazing because I feel like she’s here but it’s still not a reality. I’ve seen her move but I haven’t felt her yet. I’ve also listened to the beat of her heart. It’s been incredible to be able to see her in real time with such good definition. It amazes me how it was to have a child in the past, you couldn’t know anything about your baby until he or she was born!
Everything’s good?
Yes, while they were doing the scan they were also checking everything, they checked the head, the length of the arms, legs and organs, they count the vertebrae… You can see everything. Everything is correct; she’s going to be a big girl.
Congrats! What’s her name?
We don’t know yet. Laia and I have some names in mind but we haven’t decided yet. I was thinking of calling her Rim or Nei because I want a short name.
Ollie.
I like them, they are not so common.
I’m looking for that but I don’t like when people ask me: ‘Will she have an African name?’ Trying to make me know that I shouldn’t do it because they won’t know how to pronounce it… I don’t care! Everybody tells me I should call her this or that… I just think, have your own baby and call it however you want and leave me alone! Many people have told me that if her name is African she will have problems, that I should give her a Catalan name because physically she will look similar to me. I was born in Catalonia but I don’t feel like I belong here, the world is too big to feel like you’re just from one place. If I look back I’m sure my ancestors were all around the world and finally they stayed in Africa and that’s why I’m black, so what? What’s the meaning of being from a country? It’s just a fucking ID, you will have some advantages depending on the country but that’s it.
And what about you? You have an African name and you’ve never had problems because of it.
Dude, they’ve been saying my name wrong all my life and I don’t care, they called me Gelo once.
Gelo
?
Yes, an old woman that comes to the bar where I work. She couldn’t remember my name and I told her: ‘Think about the pill you take when you have a headache (IBUprofeno in Spanish) and you will remember it.’ A few days later she came back, and she said ‘Hi Gelo’, I was like. ‘Gelo? Why Gelo?’ And she answered, ‘Yes, like Gelocatil’ (Gelocatil is another drug for headaches) ha ha.
I still remember your face full of happiness when you told me you were going to be a dad. What goes through your mind now that you’ll have a kid at 23?
A lot things go through my mind, but at the same time things don’t change that much. It will change because she will be a person that will depend on me but I’ve been taking care of Ona, my girlfriend’s daughter and I already know how it is to be a dad. What I like about now is that I’ll have a daughter from her birth and also that I will be able to offer her things that I didn’t have when I was a kid. I come from a very humble family; I’m part of the first generation that was born and raised in Spain and I never travelled and went out with my family. I have to admit that the fact of having a kid being 23 scared me a little bit at the beginning… But days before knowing I was going to be a dad my aunt died, it was tough, my cousin was depressed. After some time I told him we were waiting for a baby and that was the best thing I could’ve told him, he told me: ‘My mom has died but a new life is coming.’
I was a little bit afraid of telling him about it but after his answer I thought that the baby was a new life and it was going to be amazing. I also thought that was awesome because I have my parents with me, and they will have a granddaughter. I don’t know, everything is happiness; a kid is all about that. Don’t know how to explain it.
Some people have asked me if I’m ready and I answer them if they are ready for life. We never know what’s going to happen. I’m 23 years old but I don’t think like most people my age. Partying, going out for lunch, going to the beach… All those things are not priorities for me, they are not even secondary. My priorities are the people around me and doing things that fulfil me. Partying is OK but I like it when it happens spontaneously and the baby won’t stop me from doing that. Laia can stay with her one day and next time I will stay with her. I know that most of the time I will stay with her. When my sister was a baby I always stayed with her, I don’t know, it’s just the way I am. Suppose I have to go to a wedding, I’m not thinking, ‘where can I leave my daughter so I can go?’, I’m taking her with me. We already took Ona to the wedding of our friend Cris, and we killed it on the dance floor, ha ha. When I’m skating the baby hypes me up, when I’m filming a difficult trick I think, ‘this try is for the baby’ and I try it with more enthusiasm. Like with everything it will be good and bad moments, nights of no sleep… But I like the fact of having her now when I’m young. I like it because I’m going to be able to do loads of things with her. I’m young and I have enough energy.
Switch frontside wallride to 5-0.
Seeing how new generations are growing nowadays, are you worried about the influences that your daughter will maybe have?
Yes, but whatever she does I’ll never know what will happen, at the end the beautiful part is to accept her just how she’ll be. What I’m sure about is that I´ll try to avoid her being addicted to TV, the phone, iPad… It will be hard, and she’ll probably be upset with me for three weeks but I will have to make her understand how things work. When I was a child my parents did so much for me, they came from Africa without knowing the language or the people and ended up getting a job and having four children. We were never rich, but we never lacked anything: I ate, I had a house, and I was never cold. For me those are the most important things. As a child I saw that my friends had cell phones and so on but I preferred to take a shower with hot water than having a fucking phone. All this technology is secondary and I think it’s important for a child to be conscious during his or her childhood.
What I know for sure is that I don’t want to influence her; I want her to discover what she likes on her own. When I was younger, my mother enrolled me in indoor soccer and told me that I would become a great player and I would take my family out of poverty. I liked the idea because I wanted to take care of my parents but even playing for Barca and the Catalan selection I saw that football was not my thing. I played because of her, but she couldn’t come to the games and I saw that all the kids went with their parents and had something to eat after the game and I always went back home alone. It didn’t upset me because I knew my mother was working so that I could play soccer. I liked playing soccer and I didn’t play only because she wanted it, it was just that I had to depend on someone else always to play and that wasn’t fulfilling me.
Ibu.
That’s why you ended up skating?
Yes, when I skate I only have to depend on myself. Football is like skate contests, I had to play when they told me and I had 40 minutes to play and win. I skate when I want. I can spend five hours skating with my friends without doing a single kickflip and I don’t care; I do it because I want and there’s no pressure.
A few months ago you told me you were going to start skating for a new board brand called Quotamine and lately you’ve been travelling to Paris to meet them. How have you ended up skating for a French brand?
My relationship with Quotamine started when I met Luidgi (Gaydu), the Cons French TM. He came to Barcelona with Kevin (Rodrigues) and Roman (Gonzalez) and there were good vibes since the first day. They invited me to their apartment, we skated together many days and one day I asked Luidgi about some dope drawings that I saw on his Instagram account; he told me that he drew them. That was cool because I also draw. I showed him some drawings I made during those days, and he also liked them. I can’t remember how it happened but after that conversation he ended up telling me that he was thinking about starting a new board brand called Quotamine. He told me that the project would take time, but he would like me to be part of it. I was hyped about the idea because of the good connection and he invited me to stay at his house in Paris to meet the other people that were going to be behind the brand: Elijah Cole, Christopher Walters, Vincent Boyom, Victor Campillo, Leon Piazza and Pierre Subra. I also met his family and got to know him better; he’s the man! After awhile he came back to Barcelona and stayed at my place… It was crazy because we didn’t see each other for quite a while but I felt like he had always been here, he’s a good friend. Since then, we have been drawing a lot and exchanging ideas and now Quotamine is a reality. I’m super happy with how everything is going. I like skating for a small brand with friends and I feel proud when I look at the board I’m riding. Also the boards are super good! It’s dope because before the brand came out there was already good vibes, we skated all together and then the boards came out. The connection between us is not the product; it’s the friendship and the good feelings that exist among all of us.
Fakie ollie.
What’s the meaning of quotamine?
Quotamine refers to something minor that is everywhere but nobody knows its origin, something that has always been there but nobody knows.
You’ve always been into art and I’ve seen that some Quotamine graphics have a lot to do with African art. Are you involved in something else other than just skating for the brand?
Everybody that skates for Quota plays the same kind of role and we all decide what has to be done. Leon, Luidgi and I are more into drawing but we all have something to say in one way or another. We have a WhatsApp group and we’re always throwing out ideas, even the people that don’t draw suggest ideas.
You’ve been supported by Cons for a long time now and if I’m not wrong looks like they’re going to put you on the European team. How is it going with them?
Super good. Pali Negrin has been helping me out for many years. I like the brand, the shoes and I feel identified. I feel like I have freedom and that I fit just as I am. I’m happy they count on me because I never imagined that I would be where I am, actually I still can’t believe it. I feel like somebody likes what I do and that gets me stoked. I’m hyped on the idea of being a part of the European team. I look forward to skating with people that I’ve always looked up to, travelling more, seeing new places, different cultures… I want to try my best and see where all this goes.
That’s dope! Do you think you’ll be able to handle all the travelling when you have the baby?
That’s the first thing that came to my mind when I knew that I was going to have a baby. It’s a time of big changes in my life and I have to see how everything works out. At the beginning I will have to stay with her a lot but on the other hand I will be earning money from skating so I won’t have a full-time job, with a timetable and always at the same place. I know that I will have to do some tours and stay productive but I think I will have time for everything. It’s not like I’m thinking about quitting my job, I want to have something else besides skating because skating is not the only thing in this life. I don’t want to get obsessed. I like skating and working, when I’m working for way too long I start thinking about what I’ll try when I’m out skating. After working all day I probably won’t be able to skate for more than an hour and a half, but I skate focused and I enjoy it.
Ollie then hippy jump.
We’ve been filming together for a new video part and you’ve been filming in Paris lately… How is it to film with other filmers after filming with me for so many years?
It’s quite strange to film with other filmers. I like skating fast and up until now you’re the only one that can follow me, ha ha. In Paris I filmed with people that have been doing it for a long time like Romain Batard to mention one, he films good and he was super cool. I felt very comfortable from the beginning; he was cautious and everything he said was positive but I don’t know, it’s strange when a filmer that’s not you follows me because I don’t have the same confidence that I have with you. With you it’s not only about filming, you and Mango got me to skate for my first ‘sponsor’, Rokipa skateshop (RIP), and I grew up watching you skate. After so many years it’s weird filming with somebody else but not in a bad way, it’s just because I don’t have the same connection with other filmers. When I film with you I forget you’re there, I’m not thinking if you’ll film it properly or not. I also like when I film with you because you give me ideas, you know me well and you know the chances I have in order to try tricks. If I have a bad day you also know it and you don’t force me. Dude, you are in my tight circle of friends and we do other things besides filming, we skate together, search for spots, go round… You are one of the first people who knew I was going to have a kid.
Well we’ve been friends for a long time now and I know how high you can ollie ha ha. I love going to giant spots and telling you to try this trick or the other because I know your possibilities… What goes through your mind when I ask you to try some crazy stuff?
When we arrive at the spot and I see you next to it, comparing it with the height of your hip and knowing that the spot is possible for me I just don’t need anything else. I like it like that…
Kickflip.
It still surprises me that you started skating when YouTube already existed and you’ve never stopped wanting to film at new spots and saving the footy for a video part instead of using the footy for a shitty video or for an Instagram edit. Why is that?
For me the best thing about a video is to search for new spots, save footy and do a project that will last for a long time and where you will be able to see some kind of progression. In order to achieve that, you have to work hard and be patient. It’s a bit like wine, you don’t drink it right away, if you want it to be good you have to wait for it. I like when I see a video part of somebody I haven’t seen for a long time and I think Instagram is ruining that, and it’s making skateboarding less interesting. I don’t check my phone too much, but if I open Instagram it’s because I want to see things I like and I hate not being able to rewind a video to see the only trick of a 30-second Insta edit that I like. When I post something it’s never at a street spot where I would like to film with a camera, it’s always a trick that’s kinda easy for me and that happens naturally when I’m skating with my friends. I work for so many hours and I don’t have much time to skate so if I have the chance to film something I like I don’t want it to be filmed with a fucking phone and even less posting it on a social network where the video will get lost in one day. For me Instagram is like a trend, think about Facebook, how many people used to use it and look where it is now…
Maybe not many people know you because you’re not an Instagram freak, but nowadays it is like you don’t exist if you’re not active on social media. What do you think about the Instagram madness?
For me Instagram posts don’t translate on how much you skate, when I don’t post it means I’m skating and when I post something it’s probably because I haven’t been out skating. Uploading videos constantly seems like you’re trying to say: ‘look at me, look at me, look at me’, I imagine somebody skating at a spot and saying ‘look at me, look at me, look at me’ ha ha. In many cases it turns skating into something predictable and I prefer watching something that surprises me. If somebody wants to watch me skate I prefer him to watch me in person. I don’t like how videos filmed with a phone look: I can skate fast but I always find that the video looks so slow, it’s not worth it, ha ha.
One thing’s for sure, Instagram sucks. I always loved the surprise factor, when I see somebody skating live for the first time I enjoy it much more.
I find it much more interesting that way, I like when I don’t expect anything from somebody. In fact, I follow people on Instagram that I discovered watching them skate live and after I’ve seen they’re kinda like me, they don’t post much and when they do I’m looking forward to watch it. When I see too much skating of someone it doesn’t hype me up that much. Dude, save some posts during a month and try to film a part, it will be way cooler.
Wallride to crooked grind.
You don’t usually skate around the centre of Barcelona, do you think that being from a town from the out-skirts of Barcelona also has to do with being unknown for a lot of people?
For sure, I used to skate around the centre when I was a kid and now I sometimes skate at Sants. I even posted a fun clip on Instagram skating with my good friend Jordi Clotet. I like skating at Sants, it’s close to the centre but I feel like I’m in the right environment and there’s also a tall ledge, ha ha. I don’t skate much around the rest of the city because I’ve seen almost every spot in videos. People go there to do the heaviest possible trick and I´m more about crusty grounds and lesser-known spots. Also I’m from a little town and the city has always stressed me out, not because of the people, it’s more about the atmosphere, the air you breathe… I don’t feel comfortable. Being in Barcelona and not seeing stars when I look up at the sky seems weird to me. I love lying down on the roof of my place and watching the stars for hours having a beer or smoking a joint, that’s peaceful. I feel like people in Barcelona are stressed and don’t care much about other people. It’s not like a town, I’m used to walking around my town and saying hello to everybody. All of that affects me when I’m skating; I don’t like it when there are too many people around.
Well I think is time to wrap this up, keep being yourself and say some last words if you want.
Chao la bise, ha ha ha.
Frontside 50-50.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  September 2, 2020
HELride / Suvilahti / KOFF Race 2020
Photography: Keke Leppälä.
“No permits, no security, shitloads of free beer and good skateboarding. The golden recipe that keeps on giving.”
After cancelling the official event dates from July we hoped for a change of doing something in the end of August to kill the boredom of no one being able to organise anything.
After talking with each other it seemed that everyone was planning to organise their own event around those times. We (Helride Collective) had planned a short version of HELride, Suvilahti Diy crew were planning to do Södervik Mästare (Suvilahti Masters) and Marcus and MFT were planning the Koff downhill race. Learning all this it was pretty obvious to get together and try to organise it all on the same weekend.
So it became:
Friday 8th of August: HELride Day
Sat 29th of August: Södervik Mästare at the Suvilahti Diy Skatepark
30th of August: Koff downhill Race
HELide day 2020
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by HELride Event (@helride_event)
on
Aug 31, 2020 at 3:44am PDT
We kept the marketing as low key as we dared. We mostly relied on word to mouth and only hoped to bring enough people to have a good sesh. As a lot more showed up and as hundreds of people moved through the three spots we had prepared for Friday we were sure to be asked to stop the event by the growing number of cop cars that started showing up. Soon we realized we were the minor threat compared to the Bandidos motorcycle gangs yearly northern scandinavian gathering that was happening on the other side of the area.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by HELride Event (@helride_event)
on
Sep 1, 2020 at 12:45am PDT
Our sound system was portable and blasting but the microphone died conveniently just as we started on the first spot. Helping hands got us a megaphone which of course ran out of batteries fairly quickly too. Luckily our MC @suomibob did not run out of energy and eventually it looked like none of it mattered anyways. People knew the drill without someone constantly reminding them what was happening. Skate, shout, high five and have a good time.
The energy around the spots and the level of skating was incredible and everything we had hoped for. Thanks to @madarsapse and @jeanpantaleosk8 who made their way to fuel the fire of our local rippers like @weskinen, @pduffplanb (local as you notice), @jaakkoojanen, @saltevonni, @crisvirusb, @j-nor, @brixi.boo. One hell of a year and another HEL of a ride for the books.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by HELride Event (@helride_event)
on
Sep 2, 2020 at 2:10am PDT
Södervik Mästare vol. 2
Jean Pantaleo, alleyoop stalefish.
This year has been far from normal. No events, no concerts, no movies, no parties… hell, even having a decent skate session has been hard to pull off. With that in mind, a couple of suvilahti diy locals decided to give covid-19 the classic middle finger by pulling off a day to remember. With the help of+1500 assorted beverages we invited all who dared to show up and tear our loved skatepark to bits and let me tell you: ”Give and you shall receive.” Local brands, bands & bros came and wrecked the place up. Shattered bones: check, mind bending NBDs: check, local heroes and out of town legends: check, during the pool session: check. A day that reminded everybody what life was like before all of this madness started. And as a final stroke of magic, when the last band finished their final song it started to rain. Shows over folks, go home, see you next year. It was good to see you all, even for a day. Stay safe.
Oona Solehmainen, wallride.
Koffin vauhtiajot
This year was the 6th edition of the Koff Speed Race. A downhill etravanganza that takes place in the heart of Helsinki. Due to restrictions on travels and an uncertain weather, the crowd was unfortunately a bit smaller this year. It did not stop anyone from having a fucking blast though. Last year’s champ Madars Apse was present to defend his title but an unexpected contender, Nicklas Pettersson from the small town of Kouvola, stole the win. We had to do a kill switch finale including 6 guys due to the crazy rain. The slippery slope made couple victims but in the end Nicklas, Koffman (Samuel Sundell) and Pat Duffy came out victorious in that order. The halftime best trick was equally entertaining. Kicker to kicker while the rain was at its worse. Bodies, beers and pieces of plywood went flying. Tito Aiha made the wettest kickflip and shut down the whole thing (there was not much left of that landing anyway). Rain or not, Helsinki knows how to have a great fucking time. Plenty of beers, friends and smiles is all you need. Thank you MFT, Happy Hour, Sid, ERG, Free Pizza, Jackie and Kotkot for the support. Special thanks to everyone that showed up. See you next year.
Tito Aiha, kickflip.
We would like to collectively thank everyone who showed up, sponsors and all the supporters in these strange times. Let’s all hope skateboarding will bring us back together next year.
@
Helride_event
@
suvilahtidiy
@
koffinvauhtikisat
Click through more of photos last weekend’s chaos below:
View Gallery | 31 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 14, 2017
Michi’s Travels
Shanghai, China, 2006. Ph. Adam Sello
Michael Mackrodt has been all over the world. I would call him ‘The Traveller’, but Kenny Reed nabbed that nickname first. Regardless, Michael’s seen and experienced a hell of lot on his various journeys. We asked Michi to retell some of his stories of dangerous situations, close calls and mayhem from over the years. Put the kettle on and get tucked in to read all about altitude sickness, CIA agents, security guard battles, bar fights, bloodthirsty cabbies and more.  – Will Harmon
Words by Michael Mackrodt
A few years ago
we went to Shanghai with the Berlin homies. On one of the first days I got this lipslide on this weird railing by the water. That same night, it was the weekend so Flo Bodenhammer and I decided to go to this shitty club. We found a lonely bottle of Johnnie Walker on a table, so we drank it (maybe a little too fast!). After awhile, Flo left, a bit too wasted, and I stayed with a bunch of people we’d met. When the club closed, some drunk Aussie was standing in the exit way, looking for a fight, pushing random people. Then he came close to me… Drunk with the empty bottle still in my hand I told him to fuck off. We stood closely, staring at each other and he must have felt that I wouldn’t bother smashing my bottle at him. So he stepped back a little, telling me everything is fine and blah blah blah… When all of a sudden, his friend, standing in my blind spot, hit me from the side. Bottle in my face! What a fucking pussy. As a reflex, I smashed my bottle on the guy in front of me, the one that caused the trouble at first, but who had not touched me. So basically, my face wide open, blood pissing, and him, bleeding, too! Blood everywhere, everyone just punched and kicked all they could, getting hits and kicks in from all sides. I just thought ‘don’t fall to the ground or you’re fucked’. Soon bouncers came from everywhere, etc. I managed to escape and ran back to the hotel.
The next morning I went to the cafe where we’d have breakfast at each day and just sat quietly next to Jan Kliewer. Only after a while he realised my face! (I hadn’t been to the hospital yet. Ha ha ha, the look he gave me! OMG!) Jan freaked out!
Frontside lIpslide, Shanghai, 2006. Ph. Lars Garta
So I went to the hospital, got eight stitches in the middle of my face and was out of order for the next few days. I had two black eyes, a scarf around my head and a crazy headache.
A few days later, when I finally felt like skating again, we went to this popular manny to manny spot (two short pads with a gap in between, sharp marble edges). I switch 180ed up the first, missed the pop (ground is really shitty right before), hung up and flew towards the gap. I was so scared to break my neck that
I somehow managed to jump as far as I could to clear the gap with (at least) my head. BUT I landed straight on my kidney. Only on my kidney! The edge cut into my body with a deep cut in my right side abdomen muscles. Luckily my kidney wasn’t cut ‘cause this could have been really bad!
I lay there in crazy pain and couldn’t really move my left leg anymore. So the others carried me to the street to
stop a cabbie, who, speaking no English, wouldn’t understand where we wanted to go. I mean it was pretty obvious, ha ha. Luckily I had the hospital address from the week before.
So in Shanghai, cabs are fully white inside… They wanna be classy. But after this taxi ride, this one wasn’t white anymore! It was rather red and bloody (he got a nice extra tip to clean it though). At the hospital the guys thought that I had been stabbed, looking at my face as well. They asked if this was some mafia revenge… I told them it was just skateboarding. So after two weeks in China I arrived home bent to one side and I walked like this for a week (‘cause the stitches on my side were so tight) and my face was green, yellow and blue… My girlfriend looked at me rather shocked!
In Mombasa one night
after dinner, we (Jan Kliewer, Guillaume Perimony and myself) started to walk home in the dark. The hotel was only a few blocks away, plus, Mombasa locals are super friendly, so we decided to take another small road for a change but mainly to spot hunt!
As a joke, I said: ‘ah maybe this time we’ll get into trouble’, when just a few seconds and a few metres later, out of nowhere, a Tuk-Tuk pulls over. Two armed Kenyan army guys jumped out and stood next to us.
Now, there it was, our shitty situation: three white guys in a lonely, dark street in Africa, two bored army dudes with Kalashnikovs, asking for our passports – which of course we didn’t have. Even if we’d had them, we wouldn’t have shown it right away ’cause it’s the old, classic situation: either they try to rip you off because you don’t have your passport, or they take your passport because you show it, to make you buy it back (well, for girls this situation is way more delicate, ‘cause it might end in rape). It was a lose/lose situation.
Backside 180 kickflip, Nairobi, Kenya, 2016. Ph. Guillaume Perimony
Luckily for us, we were just a few metres in the dark street, so when Jan pissed them off by telling them: ‘Come on, you just want our money’ etc., the guys got really pissed. I used this moment to quietly take a few steps back towards the intersection so there would be witnesses to the whole thing.
After a moment, they realised that their timing of busting us wasn’t the best. So, luckily they let us go, knowing they hit us just a few metres too early. I wonder what would have happened if they would have seen us just a bit deeper down the dark road? They were up to something for sure.
Once more I felt that in many countries, other than what the media or websites of the ministry of foreign affairs say, it’s mostly the cops and army you need to be careful with, not the people.
Kickflip wallride, Los Angeles, USA, 2008. Ph. Marcel Veldman
This was one
of my first Element trips to California with Pirkka (Pollari) to meet everyone at the Element US office and skate to get some footage.
Unfortunately, there was no filmer with us and none of the Element US filmers were available. At first I was a bit disappointed, I mean, we went there to get footage on American soil, on some OG spots! But instead of that, it turned out to be one of the chillest trips ever, only shooting some pics with Marcel Veldman to save this trip. So there was no filming stress and, the best bit about it: we had no bad conscience, as it wasn’t our fault at all!
One afternoon before sunset, we skated this ditch spot and somehow skate legend Jeremy Wray showed up, totally randomly with some friends of his.
So we skated this wallride and he got me so hyped that I just jumped against the wall and didn’t really realise whether I flipped my board before hitting the wall or not! It wasn’t important in that moment. I was just happy being there and watching Wray skate around. Having Marcel taking the pic to make this moment unforgettable was just the cherry on the top. Jeremy Wray was super rad too, not like many other skaters who don’t even say hey, even though you might be the only other guy on the spot. This alone was worth the whole trip.
Frontside kickflip, Abdijan, Ivory Coast, 2015. Ph. Guillaume Perimony
Last year we went
to the Ivory Coast with Guillaume Perimony to film our ‘fishing lines in West Africa’ episode. Looking for spots all over the place, we decided to rent a cab to drive (3hrs) to the official capital called Yamoussouko. It’s a small city, quite empty and more relaxed than Abidjan. Here they have built the Notre-Dame-de-la-Paix, a replica of the Petresdom in the Vatican, in the middle of nowhere and totally empty. It looks even twice as big as the real one ‘cause nothing’s there to distract you from looking at the church. There’s no life or whatsoever around. It was marble heaven for kilometres…
Frontside ollie, Abdijan, Ivory Coast, 2015. Ph. Guillaume Perimony
We decided to shoot some B-roll. After awhile, we could see a tiny yellow spot wave at us. It was a security guard in a yellow shirt, but he was so far away, that we had plenty of time ‘til he would be next to us. He told us to stop skateboarding, so we waited until he got back to the entrance of the basilica, like ten minutes. Once there, we started again. Knowing that it would take him ten minutes again to be near us. He waved again, this time more frantically. He must have shouted, too, but we couldn’t hear… We just waved back, pretending we didn’t get it, and skated on. Exhausted, he approached us again, this time a bit pissed. Guillaume told him, that considering the size of the building, he’d be better off with a skateboard, too. But he couldn’t laugh!
So once this poor guy was back at the entrance, all sweaty (it was around 35°C) a kilometre away, we started again. Fucking tourists!
Frontside rock ‘n’ roll, Abdijan, Ivory Coast, 2015. Ph. Guillaume Perimony
The 3rd or 4th time we asked him why they kept a place like this so dead, without any life. Besides us there was a tiny other group of tourists, no one else. Wouldn’t God or Jesus like to see people enjoying this place? But he really wasn’t feeling us! We got our line and a good laugh and left this holy place!
On our first ‘Visual Traveling’ trip
we took the Trans-Siberian train from Moscow to Mongolia and then on to Beijing and Hong Kong. (10,000 Kilometers video)
So one day after this tuck knee in Irkutsk, by the Lake Baikal, we went to Ulan Bator, where I fucked my ankle really bad. The evening I got hurt was also the day of Patrik Wallner’s birthday. So we went to a club to celebrate and at around five in the morning we left, but being so many guys, we ended up in different cabs. Daniel Hochman and myself were in one hustling the price and getting together 10 Euros (the real price was two Euros max for our distance but with my swollen ankle I didn’t bother). Before we left, two girls jumped in the cab as well: prostitutes, bummer. Now the cab drove to another part of town first. We managed to tell them to get out, but the driver wanted 15 Euros now. We got pissed but what could we do? So we drove near our apartment block near the train station. It was a really fucked up area, no lights and three-metre high fences around all blocks. The driver wanted another five Euros now. In local money it all sounds like huge prices so you feel even more ripped off.
Being two Euros short, (like 18 instead of 20 but also 18 instead of two in the first place!) we handed him the money and got off without a word, walking around the block towards home. Thinking all is fine as he made loads of cash, so a couple Euros short wouldn’t matter. HA!
Tuck knee, Irkutsk, Russia, 2009. Ph. Alexey Lapin
Then, all of a sudden, he turned around, wheels burning, coming at us screeching and trying to hit us with his car! We start running taking a shortcut through the grass but he would just run us over on the other side. Our entrance to the apartment was still too far! So we turned around again, running back (away from home) and jumping several fences. ‘We’re safe now!’ we thought… So we walk, out of breath, looking at each other thinking ‘wow, that was close.’ When all of a sudden, we see a massive guy passing 20 metres from us. A random guy on his way home, we thought, but as soon as he saw us, he started sprinting towards us with a big modified car tool in his hand. He was like a football player about to tackle us! Dany just screamed: ‘RUUUN!’ We ran back to jump another fence onto an electrical box. I helped Dany over, and when it was my turn, I was almost over then I felt something grabbing my shoe, but Dany pulled harder. The moment I fell onto the box on the ‘safe’ side, the tool passed my head only by a few centimetres. It could have killed me! Now we realised how serious the situation had become.
The problem was, that on the other side of the fence, there was the taxi again. It immediately took off and tried to hit us, again. He didn’t care to damage his car; he went all in! So we ran for our lives. Dany picked up the tool (we still have it for a memory) and we just ran towards a closed gas station down the road. Avoiding holes and missing manholes in the totally dark night! You trip; you’re done. Once behind the gas station (only one way out) we picked up stones and waited. When all of a sudden, we saw a shadow appearing right next to me. Dany screamed again… Full of adrenaline, we took off again, full speed past the waiting car, and ran towards the high fence we had just jumped, to clear it again. We clear another fence, and a few more, ripping our pants to finally climb onto some ghetto garage rooftop.
Quietly lying there, we could here footsteps around and the car driving in circles, obviously looking for us. I knew nothing better than to call Kirill Korobkov. Luckily I had battery left, and luckily he wasn’t sleeping yet, but was up wondering where we were, knowing how sketchy situations can get quickly. I whispered in the phone to come and rescue us. They all came down: Laurence Keefe, Patrik, Stas, Alexey Lapin, Kirill and so on. Eight guys with kitchen knives, stones, skateboards and whatever they could find – some topless, some in pyjamas, just screaming and coming to save us, like Vikings, I was sooo happy to hear them! We made it! I’m still so thankful. I don’t know how the story would have ended without mobile phones and without the other guys. And luckily I had Daniel by my side. The fastest ninja ever! This whole crazy mission over a couple of Euros! Another lesson learned: never fuck with cabdrivers in foreign countries they are the biggest assholes. They are all connected and have no mercy.
Frontside boardslide, Lima, Peru, 2011. Ph. Kevin Metallier
A few years ago
I went to South America for a couple of months with my girlfriend. We went first to Cuba, then to Peru, Bolivia and then Argentina. Kévin Métallier, Dany Hamard, Phil Zwijsen, Sam Partaix and my friend, Berlin OG skater and hater by nature, aka Krone, joined me on the trip.
Skating in Lima for the first week, everybody told us, that before going up in the Andes, we should start drinking a lot of mate de coca. The coca tea would help our bodies and minds with the high altitude. So we drank loads of it, ALL of us but Krone. With his arrogance and big mouth, he considered this as some local bullshit! He didn’t need it.
So we started driving from Lima to Cusco (3400 metres above sea level). We passed some of the most beautiful countryside I’ve ever seen: orange valleys, purple stones, yellow mountain ranges, wild lamas and so on, up and down following curvy roads. Everybody was chatting and laughing, tripping on the scenery, getting out of the car to stare at the downhills, etc.
Except one of us got unusually quiet: Krone! He started looking more pale and weird each metre we drove higher. When we approached the more than 5000m high passes, to everyone’s joy, Krone wasn’t talking anymore at all! By then he was green and fully quiet. At the highest point, we all got out, ‘cause according to the local tradition (people there are very superstitious), you’ve got to walk around the statue they’ve installed three times for good luck on the sketchy roads.
So we all did as said, but Krone, feeling really bad, just rolled himself out of the van an laid on the floor on his back, moaning. I mean, all of us struggled a bit, but Krone was about to pass out! We took advantage of it and made so much fun of him that it drove him crazy. I mean, this was the only time he would shut up and not add his two cents to everything. Better make the most out of it!
It was the most peaceful few hours of the whole trip! We waited a little longer to make him recognise his arrogance before driving on, which meant down, at least a bit! From that moment on, Krone was in love with the coco! (Mate de coca that is).
Backside nosegrind, Munich, Germany, 2004. Ph. Cedric Viollet
This photo was taken
for my first interview from when I moved to Munich (from Paris, where I grew up) for my studies. David Turakiewicz aka ‘Tura’ (French photographer) came for a visit to write a few words about me.
It was during a very hot period in the summer, so each day before or in between skate sessions we tried to cool down a bit: either in the river or in the famous ice-cold canal, also known as the Eisbach. Right behind the famous surfer’s wave, you can just jump in and float with the fast current until the canal meets the river. Once the current slows down, you can make it out of the water again then take the tramway back to your towel. It’s absolutely amazing.
So Tura isn’t what I would call a water rat, but I still managed to convince him to try it out with me. Once we jumped in the fast current, his face changed immediately. He was shocked on how cold it was and having a hard time breathing for a moment, he looked at me with this ‘what da fuck did I get into’ look. Inside, I was smiling already…
So you float for a while, enjoying the park you cross… USUALLY! Not Tura. Still shocked at the speed of the current, he couldn’t chill AT ALL. Only when the canal turns to the right, the current accelerates even more. So much fun! But I could tell that Tura didn’t like this either, AT ALL! So when it got a little wavy and bumpy in the fast stream, I just couldn’t resist telling him that a few people have died a couple of hundred metres down the stream, so he’d need to swim fast not to get pulled under. I totally made this up! Sorry Tura!
Traces of rigor mortis hit his face (maybe his whole body). Tura started crawling as fast as he could (not that fast, ha ha) to reach the side (the canal is really narrow so no big deal), but holding on to the wall, is a little mission indeed. Grasping the wall with all his power he managed to fight and got out. I was laughing but also with a little bad conscience, I mean he got really fucking scared. I let myself drift away ‘til where you get out via a long ladder; then I walked back through the park to gather up a fully traumatised and exhausted Tura.
Chicago was really spontaneous…
I saw really cheap tickets for next week to go there, so I hit up Perimony, the only filmer who’s always down for some adventures. He was in, so five days later we went there.
After exploiting every corner of the city for spots we wouldn’t get kicked out of, we found this sculpture and saw that between four and five pm the light was just perfect. Of course it’s a major bust so we had to come three or four times again and again to shoot the pic. We’d either get busted, it would be too busy or bad weather would give us a hard time.
So after a week in Chicago with super hot weather and exhausting days, I went, as I do most evenings, for a drink by myself (Guillaume never goes out). I’m sitting up at the bar, watching tennis, MMA and basketball and listening to a Grateful Dead cover band at the same time. There were only old hippies in their forties and fifties around. I was about to leave, when an African American man in his forties sits next to me, grabbing my arm and telling me quietly: ‘You’re going nowhere; you make one wrong move and you go back home in a coffin!’ Surprised, I look at him when he repeats this again. So I sat down again. He asks me things like: ‘why are you coming to the States for only one week? Why have you lost your passport? (I lost it a year ago on my way to Tunisia; someone stole my backpack in the metro). Why have I been to Afghanistan, to Uzbekistan, to Iran, to Yemen, to Palestine, etc.?
Impressed, I tried to explain that it was for skateboarding (Visual Traveling trips), that it’s my job and so on. He asked if I entered the X-games, I said no, then he replied: ‘Then you’re not a pro skater’ and went on asking question after question. When I asked if he was some sort of James Bond, he laughed briefly: ‘don’t you know who the fuck I am? Have you ever heard of CIA? Why are you coming to this bar by yourself for the second time now?’
He was probably referring to the shooting in the gay club in Florida where the terrorist checked out the place before the shooting. I tried to explain that this is the only bar near Chinatown where our hotel was located. He didn’t really listen. He also asked, and this was weird, why we’ve been to the plaza (naming the address of the sculpture of the frontside wallride, which is in front of a government building) four times in a row around the same time? I stared at him! I was shocked! Wow!
Frontside wallride, Chicago, USA, 2016. Ph. Guilaume Perimony
He proceeded to tell me that ever since we stepped onto American soil, we’ve been followed. Now it got creepy. I thought about the quiet guy in the hostel we stayed in the first two nights that was always around but wouldn’t talk to us. And now, try explaining the wallride story to someone that has no idea about skateboarding…
But what really freaked me out was when he switched to French, to perfect French and shortly after to perfect German! He was talking about Munich, and Paris… This went on for over an hour at the bar. And each time someone approached the bar, he got loud and annoying, so they would stand further away, to focus on me again. He was telling me again and again, that someone with hair like mine, with a face like mine, isn’t welcome in the USA.
He even asked the bartender: ‘What does he look like?’
Bartender: ‘Like a nice guy.’
‘No! Where is he from?’
Bartender: ‘Maybe South America?’
‘No, look at the hair, curled… He’s Arab.’
I rolled my eyes, and when he wanted to talk about religion, I told him that I didn’t care! From that moment on that he realised that I was Christian, he, even though being Muslim himself (according to him), got a bit more relaxed. Then, he looked in my eyes with a crazy deep look and told me: ‘In over an hour, you haven’t lied to me one single time!’ I thought how would he know? But he just told me: ‘I KNOW!’ and so on… It was obvious that he had been questioning me many times before from the beginning on.
So he ordered another beer. I reached into my pockets to get my cash to pay for mine, but the second I moved my arm he had already tackled me onto the counter!
‘Don’t you ever put your hands in your pockets again!’
He was just making sure I wasn’t pulling a weapon. He told me: ‘It’s a strange world we’re living in!’
What a freak show. Before going home, he made sure to tell me again and again that I should never come back to the States ever again and not to miss my flight back or to extend it. He couldn’t guarantee anything more after that. Whatever that meant?
The next day was totally fucked. We felt followed and scared. I mean I knew that I had nothing to hide, but if something had happened while I was in the States, I would have made the perfect scapegoat. Indeed, it’s a strange world we’re living in.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  May 20, 2016
Nike SB’s Skate On BCN
Nike SB’s European Series kicked off last night with the opening of an exciting pop up skatepark: Skate On BCN. A huge roof terrace minutes away from the Catalan capital’s famous Razzmatazz Club was converted into a skatable space inspired by the city’s most iconic spots. All of the Swoosh’s big dogs were in town for the SLS Pro Open, the view was breathtaking and the free beers were of course flowing all evening. Not a bad way to start off the weekend!
Here’s a glimpse of the festivities courtesy of Marcel’s Veldman:
Andrew Verde with a back smith on their replica of one of Sants’ legendary marble tables.
Kilian Zhender frontside feeble grinding over a simplified version of Barceloneta’s bank/stair/rail spot.
Ishod casually slayed the place all evening. Here he is frontside airing above a treacherously thin quarter.
Some classic Sarmiento shapes on this one. Check our instagram for the footage.
The sun setting on the Sagrada Familia as the session slowed down.
Donovan Piscopo getting the beers in.
Adrien Del Campo looking sexy.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  September 6, 2019
Ben Rowles, The Skateboard Physiotherapist
Photography by Reece Leung
Words by Will Harmon
‘Last November I was messing around doing a Barley grind and hurt my right ankle really bad. I went to hospital and had an X-ray, but all that proved was that my ankle wasn’t broken. That didn’t really help all that much… I never found out exactly which part of my ankle I’d hurt until I saw Ben…’ said
Josh Cox
.
Josh, a London skater and Mile End local, is referring to Ben Rowles. Some of you may have heard Ben’s name before, he’s even had skate photos featured in previous issues of this magazine. Well, in addition to being an incredible skateboarder Ben is now a trained and licensed physiotherapist working for the NHS in Ormskirk, UK. Recently, as a side gig, Ben has set up physiotherapy services for skateboarders. He’s held a few clinics in Manchester and London where he’s able to do one-on-one assessments. Josh attended his London clinic.
‘The assessment was so thorough,’ said Josh. ‘I had seen another physio through the NHS, and she was good, but she wasn’t as fussed about it as Ben was. Ben really took the time to figure out what parts of my ankle I must have damaged from movements I could and couldn’t do. He could see what was wrong and he really spent a long time with it. He showed me a lot of ways to improve my exercises that the NHS physio had given me. He had a way of just being very easy-going and he made me feel confident, which was nice. I couldn’t recommend him highly enough.’
I can’t exactly remember when I first met Ben, but I know it was around four or five years ago when he was living in London. Originally from New Mills (a small town 30 minutes outside of Manchester), Ben had moved down to go to Uni. Ben said it was during this stint in London that he got interested in physiotherapy. ‘I actually rolled my ankle really bad the week before I moved to London,’ recalls Ben. ‘I couldn’t skate for my first six months at Southbank University. So I saw an NHS physio, the first one said I was fine so I went off, skated again and then rolled it really badly. I had an MRI and I’d snapped a ligament. So they sent me to another NHS physio. I had about eight months with this person and it was just great. He was totally inspiring and I was always sort of asking questions.’
Ben explained that he had been skating with this huge ankle support brace for years, but after seeing this one particular physiotherapist, who introduced him to proprioception (something we’ll discuss later) and other exercises, within eight months he could skate without the brace.
‘My confidence was back and it was great. So I rang up after I was discharged and I asked him, “can I come observe a bit of physio because I’m thinking about actually trying to do it.” And he was like, “yeah sure, come in.”’
At Southbank Uni Ben was doing a media degree focused on photography, ‘just because it was something to do; I didn’t really think too much about it.’ If Ben wanted to actually learn physiotherapy he’d have to go to another college because he didn’t have any science-based qualifications. But he told me he was apprehensive about committing to that until he was sure he really wanted to study physiotherapy. So for two days Ben went to Guy’s and St Thomas’ hospital by London Bridge and he was able to shadow this physiotherapist and two others. ‘After those two days I thought, “this is brilliant!” and that’s what got me hyped to actually pursue it.’
Ben admits that in his final year at Southbank Uni instead of doing a lot of work to finish his media degree, his mind was already switching up to thinking about physiotherapy and was focusing on getting into college for that. After speaking with his mate Woody (Garry Woodward, skateboarder from Manchester) who had himself just finished a physiotherapy degree, Ben decided to move to Manchester. The plan was to get on the same access course that Woody had and that’s exactly what Ben did. All this time Ben was a sponsored skateboarder riding for Etnies and Note. After completing the access course he enrolled at Sheffield-Hallam University for a 3-year physiotherapy degree. Whilst learning the ins and outs of physiotherapy in Sheffield, Ben managed to film two full video parts. In June 2018, just after he graduated (with a Bachelor’s Degree in Physiotherapy), Ben immediately got a job doing working for the NHS.
Being a skateboarder and working as a physiotherapist for your day job perhaps it’s only natural that these two disciplines intertwined. I asked Ben about why he decided to combine the two:
‘The reason I started the skate physiotherapy stuff is throughout my degree obviously I was still skating a lot, and when I mentioned to people I was studying physio people would just start telling me their injuries, like all the time,’ Ben said. But Ben wasn’t in a place to do anything about it because he was a student.
‘As much as I had an understanding I couldn’t do anything because I wasn’t qualified and it wouldn’t have been right. So as soon as I graduated I started work and people were still telling me about their injuries I was like, “whoa, yeah I can help you out now because I’m registered and I have the right insurance. It’s all sorted with the Chartered Society of Physios so I can actually do this. But instead of just doing it sort of like whatever, let’s set something up.” So I made my own
website
, put an Instagram up (
@theskateboardphysiotherapist
) and found a therapy room to hire. So I just thought, “let’s just see if anyone wants to come and see me?” and then people were keen straight away. I do my work for the NHS; that’s where I get all my experience and build upon my knowledge as a general physiotherapist. And then I thought I could do the skate physio on the side and I can use that knowledge to help skateboarders. I’ve been a skateboarder for so long (15 years), we all know what that’s like… You’re always gonna be a skateboarder, but recently I’ve been going so far into the physio world, so it’s nice to be able to combine the two.’
Frontside feeble grind, Leeds.
Now Ben isn’t claiming to be the first physiotherapist skateboarder out there, there are others… In addition to Woody that we mentioned earlier, there’s also Jeroen Stam (
@skateboardphysio
) from the Netherlands. Whilst researching for this article I came across the website
thedailypush.com
for which Jeroen is a contributor. Created by Matt Beare (a skater from the UK now living in Barcelona), the daily push is a website dedicated to skate physiotherapy. It’s filled with helpful interviews, useful stretches and exercising tips, I highly recommend it. On the other side of the pond is Kyle Brown (
@dr.kylebrown
), a skater/physiotherapist who lives in LA. His Instagram posts are filled with physio exercise videos that are specifically tailored towards skateboarders. Kyle has been working with skaters out there on the West Coast such as Kelly Hart, Sebo Walker and Walker Ryan.
In February, just after he had finished his London clinic, Ben met me at the new ledge spot by London Bridge. We chatted a bit and he handed me his business card. ‘The Skateboard Physiotherapist’ it read and included his contact info.
‘One of the best ways to be effective in physiotherapy is to know the area you are rehabbing,’ said Ben. ‘Since I know skateboarding it means that when a skateboarder has an injury, I know what they’re trying to get back to because I’ve been there myself. So that means I can adapt my treatment to a skateboarder. Whereas you might go to a general physiotherapist, and they may be great physio, but if they don’t quite understand a skater’s needs, then you might not get the precise treatment you require.’
It makes sense really, and it brought to mind something that Tom Zealand (a skater from Harrogate) said about Ben’s services: ‘It’s great to get advised what to do if I’m going skate-boarding, rather than be told not too.’
We chatted a bit more and I mentioned to Ben that my foot had been giving me problems, so we decided it might be a good idea if he did an assessment on me. This way I could learn a lot more about what a skate physiotherapy assessment was like and also perhaps it could help me with my own injury.
I broke my foot pretty bad in 2017; I had what was called a lisfranc fracture. It was actually a cycling accident, but it’s still been affecting the way I skate. I know a few other skaters who have broken or injured their metatarsals like me, notably Evan Smith, Corey Duffel and Martino Cattaneo. So it may not be a typical skate injury, but it does happen. I had surgery on my foot back then after I broke it, but I’ve been trying ever since to make it feel normal again so I can skate the way I’d like.
So a few weeks later in early March I got the train up to Manchester. After a quick stop at
Note
, Jim Craven and I made our way through the rain to the Pumpcage skatepark to meet Ben. When Ben arrived we had a skate… I kept switching my insoles because my left foot kept hurting me. Ben said we could address that in a bit and after an hour skate we decided to head to the therapy room Ben had rented out for the evening.
On the drive over in Ben’s car I asked him what were the most common skate injuries he’s assessed so far: ‘Ankle rolling, tweaked ankles and tweaked knees,’ he said. Ben couldn’t really mention skater’s names without their permission due to patient confidentiality. ‘If you ask every skater they’re going to say they’ve rolled their ankle at least once. As a skater you learn to live with the fact that you’re going to tweak your ankle a bit. I’ve been seeing a lot of shoulder injuries too.’
We arrived at the therapy room and as Ben set up I changed into some shorts and t-shirt. When Ben was ready we started the assessment by discussing my injury history. I told him about breaking my foot a couple years back and how I did go to the NHS for physio until the end of 2017, but after I could walk with ease they discharged me. I was thankful they got me to that state, but I still needed some fine-tuning to get my injured foot to be able to skate again properly. It was nice to be able to tell him that I couldn’t pop my halfcab flips like I used to and have him actually understand what I meant. Then he asked me about my goals… Ben explained that patient care is all individualised. For each client he’d ask him or her what it is that they want to get back to doing. ‘If I’m in my day job and someone says to me: “I just want to get back to be able to walk to the shops.” I would say, “OK, what are your goals?” and they say, “I want to be able to go to the shop and back pain free or not with a walking stick,” and then that would be our goal. And so a skater comes to me and says, “I want to be able to film for this video” or like yourself, if you don’t mind me saying, “I want to be able to skate for more than two hours without my foot hurting and skate two days in a row.” So for you that’s what we’d go for. It literally all depends on the person and what they want, so you try to achieve that.’
Next we went over to the therapy table. I sat back on the table and Ben checked my feet and legs for mobility and flexibility. Then he had me stand up and he checked my balance. We went over to the wall and I practiced balancing on one foot. This is one of the exercises I kept doing from my NHS physio days in 2017 so I was quite good at it. Then Ben brought out a wobble board. I tried to balance on one foot on the wobble board without touching the wall. With a bit of wiggling I think I managed 20 seconds. Then Ben said, ‘now try the same thing with your eyes closed.’ This was much harder; I barely got to seven seconds balancing before I had to touch the wall.
Ben told me that this was testing my proprioception. ‘Proprioception is basically your own awareness of your body parts in space or in the environment,’ he explained. ‘It means when you put your hand behind your back and you shut your eyes, you are still aware of where your arm is even though you can’t see it. There are proprioceptive receptors in your muscles, joints and tendons. So if you injure a joint, say if you roll your ankle, you can damage some of those receptors. When you injure yourself you lose some of that proprioception. If you lose proprioception this is often linked to people having recurring injuries, like when you keep on rolling your ankle or buckling your knee. It’s because you’ve lost that awareness of where that body part is in a sense.’ Ben said that an important part of skate rehab is to build back that proprioception through balance work to challenge those sensors. ‘Standing on a wobble cushion or jumping on one leg, those kind of things will have to make your brain think about where your ankle is for example. So in the future, if you’re about to roll your ankle, your brain knows where your ankle is so it’s easier for it to do something to prevent it from rolling over.’ Ben stressed that proprioception is a very key step in rehabbing skate injuries.
Frontside 50-50 grind, Newcastle.
The next thing we did was Ben showed me a series of exercises that hopefully would ease the pain I’d been experiencing in the ball and side of my foot. These included calf stretches, hamstring stretches, and foot exercises with an elastic exercise band. He recommended I get a wobble board (or stand on two pillows) and practice proprioception at home as well.
I asked him if there’s anything in particular skaters could do to prevent injuries. ‘It’s basically just about looking after your body; things like warming up and cooling down. Warming up is a really good way to prevent muscle strains and pulls and things like that, which can cause little injuries here and there and those can all have a bit of a knock on effect. In football they warm up and cool down all the time, it’s a standard part of it, but in skating that takes a lot of discipline. Just for the first 5-10 minutes just take it nice and steady, do a few stretches it doesn’t have to be much, but it’s enough just to warm your body up.’ Ben said.
And then Ben brought something up that I had never thought about really, my cardiovascular system. ‘Skaters probably don’t think about their hearts so much, but you got to warm that up in a healthy way as well.’ Ben continued: ‘Things like if you’ve been working at such a high intensity of exercise… Say you’ve been trying a trick for ages and ages, you’re absolutely knackered, but you still just want to have another go but you feel like you’re done for the day. Your heart is going to be beating at certain amount of beats per minute and if you just stop skating at that point you know everyone’s at risk of your heart going into a funny rhythm. And that’s what we teach in cardio rehab; we’re saying, “right you’ve been working at this level, you need to cool down.” and that’s for anyone at any age and any activity. So if you’ve been skating for ages and quite intensely, then the last ten minutes just cruise around, let your cardiovascular system come back to normal as well as letting your muscles come back to normal. It sounds sometimes lame to warm up and cool down, but you can do it in such a non-obvious way, you’re just cruising around, but in your head you’re thinking “I’m actually looking after my body here a little bit” and it’ll have a good effect in the long run.’
‘With injuries, if you’re stretching out and keeping up on strengthening exercises generally you are less likely to injure yourself.’ Ben added. ‘But if you do injure yourself, you’ll have a quicker recovery if you are already at a good level of strength and flexibility.’ We spoke about
Korahn Gayle
, who is pro for Skateboard Café, but also is into personal training and is qualified in sports massage. Since Korahn is in such good shape, when he gets hurt, he bounces back pretty quick. ‘I’m constantly rehabbing/prehabbing,‘ Korahn told me once.
‘One of my educators at Uni used to say to his patients: “physio is something you do, not something you have.” So you’ll come to me as a physiotherapist and I’ll help you take control of your issues and with my advice, I don’t sort you out, I just help you sort yourself out,’ said Ben.
Ollie, Manchester.
Ben wrote down a little exercise list for me and said he’d follow up in a few days with a detailed email. This concluded my assessment. I was eager to try the exercises Ben recommended and when we left I felt really positive about the whole experience.
We both stayed at Jim’s flat that night and the next morning, over breakfast, I asked Ben what he had planned next. ‘At the moment I provide two services: one is the one-on-one consultations like we did and then I do a follow up. For the people that live further away, like yourself, I do a Skype service. You always want to be able to do a face-to-face assessment first, but it does help for the follow up to use
Skype for the long distance situations
. I also encourage people to use the facilities in their area. For instance, if you need to end up going to see a Podiatrist for your foot, I could recommend one for you in your area. The second thing I do is sports massage, as some people require that.’ Then Ben told me that moving forward he’d like to bring out two extra services: one for skate brands and the other is skateboard events. ‘What I’d love to start doing is working with skate brands… Say they are working on a video and their TM comes to me and says: “one of my riders is injured, but we’d like for him to have a full part,” and at that point I could come to them. Say for example they had a rider that was injured I could give him three sessions or however many sessions they would want and I could create these packages like “an initial consultation and two follow-ups is this much” and it can be totally flexible – just whatever works for them.’ The skate events service he explained was basically what it sounds like: making his physiotherapy services available at skate comps or events. ‘All I’d need was a little pop-up tent, I would have my own treatment bed and I could just have people come in. I could do sports massage all day and help with physio advice for those that needed it. I think it would be a lot of fun and people would be able to freely come up and have a chat with me.’
We finished breakfast and our original plan was to go skating that day, but it was wet so I decided to head back to London. A couple days later an email from Ben came through to my inbox. It included a PDF with step-by-step illustrated instructions of the exercises we had talked about as well as additional helpful physio advice. Since my assessment I’ve been keeping up with the exercises Ben showed me and my foot’s been feeling pretty good. We’ve arranged a follow-up Skype for just after this issue goes to print. As for Josh Cox, he’s been skating again and has just gotten back from a skate trip to SF. ‘My ankle is at about 80 per cent; it’s feeling good.’ He told me. ‘In a month or two I’ll take off the support and I should be back to normal.’ I told him to maybe just avoid the Barley grinds for a bit, ha ha!
If you’re interested in Ben’s physiotherapy services head to:
theskateboardphysiotherapist.co.uk

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  January 10, 2019
The Weight Of Clouds by Rick McCrank
Niels Bennett, blindside switch kickflip at Meanwhile 2.
Photography by Leo Sharp
Words by Rick McCrank
Recently I was imagining the air around me as a liquid, I imagined it was like I was under the sea. I watched the wind blow through the trees. I saw it as a water current with mass, pushing through its environment and I didn’t see the birds flying I saw them swimming like fish through the water.
As I was daydreaming I thought about the weight of water and how when diving, the deeper you go the more the pressure builds causing pain in one’s ears. Thinking of this I wondered: if someone is higher in the atmosphere does one feel less physical pressure? And then I started thinking about clouds and in particular the weight of clouds.
I live in Vancouver, Canada and for a large portion of the year it’s blanketed in clouds. I did some research and learned that the average cumulus cloud weighs 1.1 million pounds. I couldn’t help but think that that enormous weight above has to impact us somehow. I thought about the effect of the clouds’ weight on our bodies because all my original wondering brought me to think of the pressure one feels in their ears while diving deep underwater and technically being under the clouds is being under water.
At first I wondered if the weight of the clouds above us might possibly impact our mood because my mood tends to change during those times causing me to feel down or lethargic, but no research has proven that clouds affect moods. The affect to our mood during a cloudy day is mostly due to a lack of sunlight, which is a proven mood stimulant.
Simon Bannerot, tailslide kickflip out at St. Paul’s.
During my cloud weight research I learned about barometric pressure or the pressure of the air. I thought maybe the clouds’ weight adds pressure to the air by pushing down on it but I learned that when there are clouds the barometric pressure actually drops, this can cause aches and pains in people with arthritis and joint injuries, not unlike the pain one feels in their ears while diving deeply into the water but for the opposite reason. The pain comes from pressure easing around the body and it swells and expands. You may have heard of people feeling aches in their knees and saying something like ‘rain’s on its way’, this is the physical effect of barometric pressure on the body. I for one feel it in my right knee and ankle. In my knee I’ve had a good chunk of cartilage removed resulting in some mild arthritis and in my ankle I’ve had two surgeries and a life of ankle rolls: I have no problem predicting when it’s going to rain.
With clouds eventually there’s rain, which stops skateboarding from being even remotely safe (not that it ever really is) and when it’s damp and colder we feel more achey and stiff; it takes us much longer to feel warmed up and loose. Another thing the rain does is eat away at the ground we use to skateboard on, creating gaps between paver stones by wearing away at the grout and by year after year deteriorating and dissolving the cement we’ve poured, eventually causing rough pitted ground or what many Southern Californian skateboarders call ‘bad ground’. I imagine that people from these rainy areas such as London just call it ground because smooth ‘perfect’ ground is rare there.
Rick McCrank, wallride to fakie, Blackwall.
Now I’ve said I live in a place that rains a lot and we have our fair share of ‘bad ground’ but the difference between the city where I live and London is Vancouver is a 132-year-old city that has not had to endure centuries of relentless ground killing rain that London has. London is a 2000-year-old city and has a deeper knowledge of the clouds and the rain. Being a skater in London adds an extra layer of commitment that some other places just don’t have, the majority of the skate spots there are very challenging even for basic tricks due to rough broken ground. It takes a visit to London to really appreciate this and to appreciate the grit and talent of the local skaters even more than one already does.
I recognise I’m writing this in a British publication as an outsider of course, these are merely my observations as a North American visiting London on a week-long skateboarding trip in early December organised by the people at Kodak and Girl Skateboards to promote a new collaboration by way of doing a demo in the ‘Skate Bowl’ at the ever so posh Selfridges department store in central London. I’m joined by my fellow Girl Skateboards teammates Sean Malto, Simon Bannerot, Niels Bennett and Tyler Pacheco. We’re a close-knit family of skaters but on this trip I saw us as two groups: there was Sean and me and there was Simon, Niels and Tyler or who Sean and I called ‘the kids’.
While Sean and I are two independent people, the kids work as a single unit all with completely different personalities, mentalities and skills but combined they are one: seamless (skateboarding in a nutshell). As different as they were there was one thing that they all had in common, they didn’t use their phones. It’s been a long time since I’ve been around a group of people who just don’t give a shit about their phones.
This made me think… After pondering about clouds in the sky above I couldn’t help but think of another type of cloud, the virtual ‘cloud’ or the Internet in general. Both forms of clouds can affect mood, behaviour and skateboarding. Comparing the two clouds, there’s an honesty to the physical cloud, we can see it coming we can feel its pressure and we know when it’s gone. But the virtual cloud on the other hand is a tricky one, it’s invisible and almost always there, it sneaks up on you when you’re not paying attention. It tries to manipulate you and trick you (believe me as I’m writing this article I’ve been distracted and tricked several times).
Simon Bannerot, frontside no-comply, Kensington Library.
These days a typical skate trip can consist of long quiet moments with people looking into their palms, or if there is a conversation someone pushes their phone into the faces of the people talking to show them the latest skate trick or Internet fail, completely derailing the conversation. The other way they’ve infiltrated skate trips is how skaters constantly try to squeeze out some sort of Instagram post to please either their followers or their sponsors, I’ve done it many times. I thought it was part of the job, maybe it is? If it is part of the job ‘the kids’ really don’t care, they are completely in their environment. They feel no pressure from the virtual cloud; they don’t want likes, followers, instant gratification or false knowledge. We pretty much all feel this new pressure but not these kids; something happened down the line when they all just said ‘fuck it’. I don’t know if they felt the effects of disconnection or they just realised that they just have way more fun actually being together but somehow they broke out of the ‘cloud’ and believe me when I say this, they are free.
In their downtime away from actual skateboarding, if they weren’t talking about the spots they wanted to skate or local food traditions to sample such as fry ups or bangers and mash, they were either drawing or reading National Geographic magazines, never once wondering what anyone else was doing outside of their immediate vicinity.
The kids would always wander off without a care in the world. Malto and I were the older worried friends but they’d always figure it out. Malto commented that ‘we’re always concerned that they’ll get lost or jumped or whatever but it always works out for them. They’re fine.’
While we were on an overground train I looked up and I remembered when my plane was making its descent to land in London we were above the clouds. I was mesmerised by their beauty, lit from above with what seemed like castles and turrets jutting upwards. As we broke in to the clouds on our descent we began to feel some turbulence; I thought it wouldn’t last long, it should clear up when we get under the cloud. After a while of diving through this gigantic grey mass I was struck by how dense it was, it never seemed to end. Sitting in my pressure controlled cabin I made a mental note of how long it took and eventually we punched through the bottom of the cloud and could see London below. The cloud was low and very thick above the city, these weren’t the clouds that one lays on their back and sees animals shapes in, these were the dark looming grey clouds that cover the entire sky as far as the eye can see. Dictionary definition of the word dreary.
Niels Bennett, backside 5-0 grind in Whitechapel.
On the plane I couldn’t help but think that we wouldn’t be doing any skating outdoors while we were there. I pictured us skating the bowl and then the few indoor and covered places around town, which we did and a lot got done but to my surprise the weather cleared up for a few days… Malto and the kids wasted no time destroying spots they dreamed of skating. These guys don’t dream of skating perfect California picnic tables, they appreciate spots for their flavour and history (especially if Tom Penny skated them). Even on the rainy days it was easy to see that being in London during December was not a drag for these guys, it was a privilege and an honour and they weren’t going to waste a moment of it.
I couldn’t help but envy them, I’ve been travelling for over twenty years and sometimes I forget that.
On the day of our demo at the Selfridges Skate Bowl I had some strange feelings. Personally I don’t spend any time in department stores or malls really. I tend to do my minimal shopping at smaller local businesses, so I felt out of my element. Entering Selfridges I couldn’t help but feel out of place as we walked through the vast illusion of opulence that these places project. I started to feel old learned feelings of shame and unworthiness that growing up in poverty embeds in one’s psyche.
Once we reached the ‘Skate Bowl’ though, these feelings disappeared and I remembered who I was and not who I ‘should’ be. As we got to the corner of the store where the bowl is I could see the familiar shapes of curved wood and steel and I started to hear the sounds of community; I heard some hollering and clanging and words of encouragement from strangers trying to help each other succeed at having fun skateboarding, together as a group – a group from all sides of the economic playing field. People from rough parts of town people from posh parts of town, etc.
Inside the wooden bowl that hovered two storeys over a corner of Oxford Street I couldn’t help but think of the bowl as one of those clouds sitting in the sky above and I realised that while I was in this cloud I couldn’t feel the pressure. I was away from the pressures of life and the illusions of monetary wealth and social status. I was away from the pressures of the virtual ‘cloud’ and it’s endless desire for my attention; up there I could see further and from all angles giving me a feeling of knowing where I was and of being grounded even though I was in the sky. As I watched Simon take a run, my mind didn’t wander, I didn’t picture him swimming through the air; he was flying.

================================================================================

BY admin  •  September 16, 2021
Rassvet x Vans: Super Kruto
Words by Kirill Korobkov
This past summer Rassvet and Vans’ riders from France and Russia descended upon Moscow and the coast of the Black Sea for 2 weeks. Their common goal: to stack with Romain Batard for what would later become
Super Kruto
. But before we take a closer look at how all that went down I’d like to briefly delve into some of
France and Russia’s lesser-known shared history.
In the 18th and 19th centuries the Russian Empire went through quite a few decades of intense Gallomania where French became the main language of communication amongst the Russian elite. During that time many upper class people even knew it better than their native Russian! It must have been weird to see two Russian landowners talking to each other in French while relaxing in a sauna in the middle of the winter… Russia and France were also on the same side during both World Wars. During the Cold War the world was divided into two camps – one capitalist, the other communist. The USSR and France belonged to different camps but Charles de Gaulle was the only leader of a capitalist country who looked for better cooperation, not confrontation, and saw Russian culture as European. There is even a Charles de Gaulle monument in Moscow erected for his contribution to French-Russian relations, which weirdly ended up being one of the spots we skated!
So let’s take this recent trip as a small contribution to this long story of relations between France and Russia, after all there should be a little chapter on skateboarding too. Val Bauer, Lilian Fev, Joseph Biais and Alix Malnati linked up with Igor Smirnov, Ignat Mazurin, Kirill Gurin (also known as Kirux) and Eugene Nikolaev to promote this collaboration between Vans and Rassvet. All the photos were shot by France’s Alex Pires and Russia’s Alexey Lapin.
Igor Smirnov, 50-50 yank in. Ph: Lapin.
Novorossiysk
At one point Val said that this city reminded him of Rotterdam or Hamburg. It’s a vast city built around the harbour with a big port surrounded by low mountains. You can’t really find mountains in the Netherlands or northern Germany, but yeah, Novorossiysk has that same port city vibe: it’s one of the largest in the country. It’s from here that Russia exports oil and wheat and that all kinds of imports enter the country.
A good amount of Novorossiysk spots are located on the waterfront and for this reason are often very scenic. At one point we even found ourselves skating a spot on the beach that was about 10 metres away from where dolphins could be spotted jumping through waves. It was such a treat to discover that you could still find them in open water like this, right next to a big city…
Besides its port city status it’s also a gate to the resort zone that includes numerous small neighbouring cities. That industrialised part of Novorossiysk shaped by the port infrastructure is balanced (or supplemented) with vacation spots overlooking the Black Sea. Russians on seaside holidays is a subculture of its own. The majority of Russian citizens live far away from the southern seas and these trips are a very special thing that many have been waiting months or even years for. When vacation time finally begins they go all in! The beaches are packed from early on in the morning. By the sea you can find all segments of the population: from kids to pensioners, from street hooligans to wealthy families, from total psychos to Instagram models. The entertainment culture there is pretty simple: for fans of active relaxation on the beaches there are banana boat rides, trampolines and ginormous colourful inflatable slides that can be bigger than some people’s houses. For most Russian people the seaside holidays aren’t about comfort or high service, it’s all about actually being by the sea or in the water.
Eugene Nikolaev, backside 180 nosegrind. Ph: Lapin.
Five days in Novorossiysk was a good start. Romain Batard documented tricks on spots that most of the skateboarding world has never seen before. We survived extremely hot days that gave us the Black Sea tan and we even had a chance to enjoy the Russian Riviera. We went on an overpriced cruise that ended quite abruptly: they booted our whole crew off the boat because some of us felt ambitious enough to go for a swim while we were sailing (although to be honest the captain was a real jerk, you could tell he was looking for conflict from the moment we set foot on there).
Lilian Fev, 360 flip 50-50. Ph: Pires.
Moscow
It’s probably a clichéd thing to say but Moscow is a city that never sleeps. The energy is truly everywhere. Sometimes it fuels you; sometimes it lets you down. One day you can be in love with Moscow and hate it the next day. Moscow is the absolute epicentre of Russia in terms of politics, state administration and economy. It’s the primary Russian city where people head from all over the country to study, work and live. It has such a crazy mix of architecture styles from different ages. It can be beautiful one minute and incredibly ugly the next. The Russian capital is also a wild place to party with all sorts of bars, clubs and dance floors that had just recently reopened from their Covid-imposed closures. You could easily go out for a couple of mellow beers just as easily as you could find yourself losing a couple of days to a sleepless dance bender.
Summer is the best season to visit Moscow. You get daylight ‘til very late and the nights are only a couple hours long. Usually it’s hot and dry in summer. Muscovites feel rewarded that the cold and dark days have finally been left behind and it’s finally their moment to live a fulfilling life. Just being able to be outside in shorts and a t-shirt without carrying a sweater or jacket already feels like a gift… And it’s a perfect moment for skateboarding.
Igor Smirnov, boardslide to boardslide. Ph: Pires.
Moscow is seriously one of the best cities in the world for skating right now. I think I already talked about this for the Mockba Life article a couple years ago but I am not afraid of repeating myself when it comes to this. I’ve been lucky enough to visit many of the skateboarding Meccas all around the globe and these days Moscow is definitely up there close to the very top. In the city centre you don’t really need a list of spots because all of downtown Moscow’s recent renovations have pretty much made it one big public skate spot. Security guards can be an issue but only if you try to skate private properties or official buildings. Almost all the public spaces and plazas are good to skate.
Igor Smirnov, boardslide pop over. Ph: Pires.
This time we barely left the heart of Moscow and put a lot of hours in at the so-called Four Seasons Plaza. It’s a public space that recently became the new hot spot among Russian skaters. Located right by the Kremlin and Red Square, this place really represents Moscow. You can see the luxurious life of the area by looking at the hotels and restaurants around, but it’s also full of normal people going in different directions or getting busy with sightseeing. There is a 6-lane road on the edge of the spot that is always full of rushing cars going the same direction. It’s such a Moscow thing to have a highway running through downtown. The police are always there but they don’t care about skaters because their main mission is to block and stop any kind of protest activity, even if it is a single picket.
Lilian Fev, 5-0 shuv. Ph: Pires.
It was very fun to be part of an international mission for the first time since the start of the pandemic. Showing foreigners around your country, especially skaters, is always an exciting experience, but it’s also something I’ve been lucky enough to do quite a lot over the years; which is why we thought it would be interesting to also hear from two of the younger members of the crew!
Alix Malnati
‘Unlike Kirill, this trip was very much a first for me. It was my first time in Russia, what could arguably be described as my first “real” international skate trip and my first time meeting the Rassvet guys…
Alix Malnati, ball ride. Ph: Pires.
Upon our arrival in Russia we were subjected to the blistering heat of the port city of Novorossiysk (Novorisk to some, Novoriziksik to others). Despite a couple of our suitcases getting lost en route – and not just any suitcases, we’re talking about Romain’s, which contained all the batteries for the cameras and mine – we were genuinely super excited by the idea of discovering what this mysterious marble coated city had to offer.
Novorossiysk is in the South East of Russia, some 1500kms away from Moscow and at times it felt like we’d entered a time warp, completely removed from the contemporary world. In Novorossiysk, English is not spoken in the hotels, the city is immaculate and life mainly revolves around its pebbled beaches and the shopping malls that overlook them. In Novorossiysk you live in the real world, a real world that is thousands of kilometres away from the capital.
It’s through the good old lens of skateboarding that we experienced this city, guided by Kirill and the locals. The spots, deeply rooted in Russia’s rigorous architecture, were often inspiring not because of their originality but because of their inaccessibility in time and space. Realistically, Novorossiysk is a place you’ll only go to once in your life, and for one week. These are ephemeral spots that you’ll never see again. You hit them once, possibly come back to them a second time, but then you jump on a plane, and suddenly they’re no more than a fleeting memory of a race against time.
Despite Ignat’s rolled ankle on the first day and the stifling, humid heat (we quickly realised that early starts were pretty much the only way to get anything done in these conditions) we still managed to check out almost all of the city’s most coveted spots, and I even learnt a trendy trick: the slappy grind.
Lilian Fev, backside lipslide to fakie. Ph: Pires.
After our five days spent overlooking the Black Sea we jumped on a plane to Moscow.
Moscow is a huge city that is often stereotyped as being cold and at the heart of the country’s political inner turmoil, but as a tourist guided by actual locals, it felt incredibly vibrant and warm. We were staying a few minutes away from the ‘Four Seasons’ plaza (and the Kremlin) and very quickly found ourselves sucked in by everything it had to offer; some even spoke of coming back to film a full part there. It’s also worth noting that – despite the streets having quite a distinctive ‘picture perfect’ quality to them – bondo (which I was introduced to on this trip) found its way onto quite a few spots, and at times in large quantities. Val and Joseph, who regularly use the magic mixture at one point even spent hours applying it to a ledge directly under CCTV cameras, which added a nice little bit of extra stress to their run in with the police a few days later (the facial recognition technology mistook Joseph for someone the police were after).
On top of discovering a new city, meeting new people and adapting to new eating habits, I experienced what it was like to be a part of a proper skate trip with a real commercial goal for the first time. I don’t think I’d realised just quite how important a role one’s mental strength played in these situations, and that although you’re going to take pleasure in skating regardless, you kind of have to remember to be measured in your approach and do everything you can to last the whole trip. As the days went on I realised by watching the others that it was important to pace yourself and accept that it’s not worth trying to skate every single spot.
Val Bauer, wallie 50-50. Ph: Pires.
I was initially quite nervous about the idea of going away with people I didn’t really know that well, but I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that with the French crew we shared a very similar sense of humour (with an age gap of approximately 10 years) and that by spending time with them I seriously enriched my skate culture. I was also pleasantly surprised by how natural the French-Russian connection felt, and I really hope I’ll be able to be as welcoming when they come to Paris!
Also to me two weeks felt like pretty much the perfect length for a trip; it gives you enough time to rest for a few days if needed but also allows you not to come home not completely frustrated and over it.
Over these two weeks I observed and learnt a number of things, notably that:
Jack Johnson is in Mindfield, that’s very important.
The euphoria of a first skate-trip can lead to you letting Tolya and Val do your hair.
It’s good to have a pair of loafers to chill in while in transit but only for when you’re
at the airport, when you’re on the actual plane nothing beats a pair of flip flops.
A real media crew must know how to use a fish-eye as a 5th wheel. Oh and that having a suitcase to carry the kit (rather than a backpack with a broken zip) can be a game changer.
Note to self: don’t whinge too much at spots too early on in the trip.
Souvenir shirts can turn out to be standout fashion accessories.
Mini plug
is truly half the size of Alex Pires.
Turning a slappy spot into a go-to spot isn’t just a Parisian thing.’
Lilian and Alix. Ph. Pires
Interview with Kirill “Kirux” Gurin (by Kirill Korobkov).
You are from Novosibirsk, Siberia. Skateboarding isn’t really the first thing that comes to mind when people think about Siberia… Can you tell us about living there and also a little bit about yourself?
I am 15 years old and I’ve been skating for four years. People call our city the capital of Siberia. I think it’s because we have the biggest population out of all the Siberian cities. We have many street spots. It doesn’t get as cold as it gets in some other Siberian cities in winter and when it’s summer the weather in Novosibirsk is usually hot.
Kirux, ollie. Ph: Pires.
How did you start skateboarding?
It happened in 2017. Me and my older brother felt like it would cool to try to skate. He saw some tricks on the Braille Russia YouTube channel and we got sparked to try to learn them. One day we went to a local shopping mall to go go-karting and we found out that the same mall had an indoor skatepark. Our attention immediately switched to skateboarding… We went there, rented boards and this was the start of it. We had skateboarding lessons at first but I was lucky to get a good instructor. His name was Pasha Tregubov. He knew a lot and also was a good skater. The first month we had skateboarding lessons every Sunday and every lesson I learned something new. The following summer I still skated indoors in the same skatepark because I didn’t know that there were street spots.
And how did you finally leave that dark room?
I found out about a mini-ramp and went to skate it. This was where I met the major skate boys of my city.
Val Bauer, switch pole jam. Ph: Pires.
Let’s get closer to this summer. How did you get to know Tolya and start riding for Rassvet?
I filmed a clip with Denis Kravchenko. He is the guy who does the videos for the Siberian skate crew Kras Cult. My video was seven minutes long and had a guest appearance by our best local rider Slava Tsoy. That clip got good views… Tolya liked it and started following me.
What year are we talking about right now?
It all happened in August 2020. It was pretty much one year ago from now.
Ok, keep talking.
A couple months later around November Tolya sent me a message and offered to send Rassvet decks and clothes.
What kind of emotions did you go through at that moment?
I was super nervous. I was scared to type something wrong. I even thought it could be a joke at first. The delivery took time and while I was waiting I thought it could be some kind of prank. In the end I got my first package and realised that it was for real. It was unbelievable!
Lilian Fev, taildrop to 50-50 into the bank. Ph. Lapin
And how did you finally meet Tolya in person?
Half a year ago I ended up in Moscow in the middle of the winter for medical tests. Our first meeting happened to be in an indoor skatepark and turned out to be very short. Tolya was in a rush to go somewhere. We didn’t do much together that day.
Tolya Titaev joins the talk.
Tolya: We also had a Rassvet shoot around the same time in winter and Kirill was part of it. I remember him being really upset that we didn’t have a proper skate session together. I promised him that I’d fly him to Moscow for two months in summer. Summer has come. And now you know the rest.
Ok, Kirill, thanks to Tolya you pretty much moved to Moscow this summer. What kind of experience was it for you being only 15 and in a big city like Moscow skating with Russia’s top players?
The first day it felt really awkward. I was really worried about my skating and everything. Also I had to establish a connection and communicate with all the boys. Everyone was super nice and friendly. It helped me a lot. It was very exciting to start filming with infamous Russian filmer Pasha Kryukov.
Let’s go through your feelings from the morning we all met you to get the train to the airport to start the tour. Only a couple months before that you’d been a very local skater from Siberia. In no time you joined a proper trip organised by Vans and Rassvet… Normally it takes years and years to achieve that.
Shock was the best word to describe my feelings at that moment.
Ignat Mazurin, gap to wallride. Ph: Lapin.
By the way, you speak surprisingly good English… How come you know it so well? It’s not a common thing for a Russian person of your age to be able to communicate in English.
I had English classes in school.
Yes, all the Russian kids have them in school but only few are able to speak English well after that.
I put some extra effort into my English. Also watching movies with no translation and reading skateboarding interviews was very helpful.
So, we ended up in Novorossiysk with a well-known filmer and photographer which brings a certain level of responsibility. Tolya came along as a project manager too. How did you handle it?
Novorossiysk was great. There were so many spots on the seafront. It’s also been 11 years since I last visited the sea. The whole sea experience was definitely amazing. Skating with French comrades was so cool. Russian guys killed it too.
What good things can you remember when you think about Novorossiysk days?
I really enjoyed talking to Lilian. We managed to establish a good connection and maybe even start a friendship. By the end of the trip we communicated almost fluently. Also I was really impressed by Igor’s 50-50 yank into the bank. That was wild.
Eugene Nikolaev, backside 50-50 to gap out over the stairs. Ph: Lapin.
And how did you feel about your skating?
It was hard. It was super hot. I felt like I was getting sunstroke a couple times. I tried my best.
What can you say about the second part of the trip based in Moscow?
Unfortunately the night after we returned back to Moscow I went to a skatepark with friends and injured my shoulder skating the hip. I went to hospital and it was all good but I had to chill and missed the Moscow missions.
I guess this can be a lesson for you that you need to focus on one project at a time and prioritise opportunities.
Yes, true that.
Did you feel that besides all the fun sometimes skateboarding can feel like a job too?
I definitely felt the responsibility. I understood the importance of getting tricks better. The more tricks you film on tour, the better for you. I learned many new tricks and I started skating street spots more. It’s important to stay active.
Keep it going! As I said before what you achieved in just a couple months this summer, for some people it takes 10 years or even more. Appreciate it, you have a good head on your shoulders! Tolya, me and all your friends are always here to help you. Let’s go skateboarding!
Tolya and Kirux Ph. Pires

================================================================================

BY Will  •  October 14, 2024
Vans Europe presents: Valomerkki
The Moment (Vans Europe in Helsinki)
Photography by DVL
Words by Will Harmon
“I can’t believe like, since I won Prague, my life just changed so quick. I hooked up with good sponsors, I meet so many people, started travelling so much… For me it’s crazy like, it’s like a dream come true.” The immortal words of Rodrigo TX in the intro of
Menikmati
… What everyone saw that day, at that Mystic Cup in 1999, was Rodrigo’s breakout moment. He was the guy that suddenly everyone was talking about. A similar thing happened this July in Helsinki, but this time the name on everyone’s lips was Simon Hallberg. After dazzling the crowds at the HELride comp Simon joined the Vans Europe squad for their jaunt through the Finnish capital. “There was like 38 people in the group chat for this one,” Chris Pfanner said, adding that it was the biggest trip he’s ever been on, and Simon was crowned MVP at the end of it. Via the photos in this article and the edit coming out to accompany it, you’ll see why…
Simon Hallberg, switch bluntslide 270
Chris Pfanner
Over the span of your skate career, can you pinpoint a moment where everything clicked, or you had a particular breakout moment, where suddenly things started really going right for you?
Chris Pfanner: I would say like around 2006, when I first met Anthony Acosta in Long Beach. I was staying with Johnny Layton and Nick Trapasso at that time and Johnny had just turned pro, and was waiting on his pro shoe (from Vans). And you can imagine the situation, Johnny was living the good life: the boys were just smoking weed, playing PlayStation all the time and weren’t really bothered. And I was just there for a limited amount of time, I couldn’t drive or do anything, so I was depending on other people to go out to skate. But luckily Anthony Acosta and Joe Krolick took me under their wing, and I was so grateful that I could just get out of the house and go and skate my last week there. So Anthony Acosta took me to the Santa Monica triple set on my last day, like hours before my flight to fly back to Europe… And that’s where I did the full cab down it. But yeah, it was a battle, and I was kind of getting over it, but then Anthony motivated me. I finally made it and got on my flight back to Europe. When I landed, that’s when I realised what I had done. And from then on, things started picking up. The footage came out in 411VM and photos from that week in California came out in a question mark interview in
The Skateboard Mag
.
And this was before you were on Anti Hero?
Chris Pfanner: Yes, this was before. So previously I had full cabbed a triple set that was in Barcelona, which is like the same size, but no one kind of cared about that. But then a few months later I did it down the Santa Monica triple set and all of a sudden, like everybody got aware of me. That was like the turning point of things. And then Jim (Thiebaud) saw that and started sending me Real boards. And shortly after that, in 2007, Julien (Stranger) was visiting Barcelona and we got to hang out and skate a little bit together. And at the end of 2007 he invited me over to San Francisco and that’s when I got on Anti Hero.
Chris Pfanner, frontside smith grind
Sick. So this line of questioning is basically due to Simon Hallberg, a member of the Vans Scandinavian squad, who just crushed it on this Helsinki trip. Would you say this trip was Simon’s breakout moment?
Chris Pfanner: Most definitely, because… Damn, what he put down on this trip was just unbelievable. And I mean, I’ve known of Simon for a while already and I’ve been speaking to Björn Holmenäs at Sour about him, and I was always curious to know a little more about him, so when we planned this Helsinki thing, he was one of the first ones to be on my list to come out there as well. But yeah, I was just blown away by the guy because his skateboarding speaks for itself; he’s on a different level. But as a person, his personality, as a human being… He’s such a sweetheart. And you can see that the guy had a solid upbringing and has a good head on his shoulders, you know? And I think this is really important for our operation, because like, you can see how our whole crew functions with the group dynamic and everything. And just him being a solid person, like it was just a matter of two, three days to get warmed up with the crew and feel comfortable in the whole environment. And I think after the first week, the whole crew crowned him the king already, so it was kind of obvious that he was having his breakout moment on that trip, for sure. I mean, I’ve seen footage of him before, and he’s been on another level… He’s such a talented skateboarder, but I just feel like being around the crew, you know, and just experiencing the whole vibe that he’s always been dreaming about just gave him that extra push. And man, it was all next level! You guys have seen the photos!
We have! He’s definitely on one…
Chris Pfanner: Also being on Sour now, he’s in a comfortable place and it shows in his own skating and his own persona, like things are set up well for him. So it’s just up to him to come out swinging and he’s doing that right now… So I think everything’s gonna work out if he just keeps on this path.
Schianta Lepori, frontside smith grind
Albert Nyberg
Over the span of your skate career, can you pinpoint a moment where everything clicked, or you had a particular breakout moment where suddenly things started really going right for you? You started to get offered more trips, either you got new sponsors, or your sponsors started to pay more attention to you, something like that… Was there a moment like that for you?
Albert Nyberg: Yeah, I guess the moment where things started going a bit more well, or when it started to click, was after my
Newsoul part
came out.
The one where you’re wearing the Elmo top…
Albert Nyberg: Exactly. My Elmo phase, that must have been my minor breakthrough.
I think it got everyone’s attention; I remember it.
Albert Nyberg: YouTube was already big then, and this guy Vianouz or something, who had a big YouTube channel that posted skate parts, he posted my Newsoul part, it got a lot of views, and then it kind of took off from there, I guess.
Tania Cruz, frontside hurricane
He just uploaded your part from the
full Newsoul video
?
Albert Nyberg: Yeah exactly. Just my part from the full Newsoul video, which (Jonathan) Lomar filmed and edited, and I got to pick the music. I think there were only like four or five people on that team. It was just a promo video.
I remember seeing it, maybe on the Slap message boards or whatever it was before, before Instagram, and I remember thinking, “Wow, this guy is excellent.”
Albert Nyberg: Ah that’s fun to hear. I guess that’s the moment, yeah. Because it was right after I graduated, so I was kind of lucky to go on trips and stuff right after. This must have been 2010 I think.
What happened after that part came out? Did you get new sponsors?
Albert Nyberg: I skated for Etnies through a Swedish distribution company at the time, and after that, Oli Buergin reached out to me and invited me to join the European team. And I was like, “Of course, I’ll join.” And from there on out I was going on trips a lot more often abroad. Prior to this I was just going on a lot of trips around Sweden through the distribution.
Aleksi “Aatsi” Suovaara, kickflip backside smith grind
The reason I’m asking this is because of fellow Swedish skater Simon Hallberg. He is a member of Vans Scandinavian squad, and he obviously crushed it on the Helsinki trip, I mean you were there, you witnessed it… Would you say that that trip was kind of his breakout moment?
Albert Nyberg: I feel like it was. I was there, but not like the entire trip. I had spoken to Simon a few months ago in Gothenburg, and he was talking about him coming on the trip, and I was more or less like, “You’re going to be fine,” because I knew how good he was. “Just be you, skate like you do, and you’re gonna be fine…” is pretty much what I said. So I’m happy that he crushed it so well. I’m really happy for him and he deserves a lot of recognition for being a great guy and a great skater.
Joscha Aicher, backside 50-50
You knew him for a while before this… Obviously, you skated with him on Jante missions with Fritte and stuff right?
Albert Nyberg: Yeah, a few Jante missions. I haven’t hung out with him loads, but I’ve definitely been around him, and he’s always been a very pleasant guy to be around. I think also, like nowadays, it’s harder to get recognised, because there’s so much skating and skaters out there. It’s a lot…
And everyone’s good at skating.
Albert Nyberg: Everyone’s good, so being on the Helsinki trip for him, I think it’s really good. Not only to see his skating, but also to see that he’s an awesome dude. He has a lot of good times to look forward to from now on I think.
Martino Cattaneo, pop shove-it
Martino Cattaneo
Through all the years of your skate career, can you pinpoint a moment where everything clicked, or you had a particular breakout moment?
Martino Cattaneo: I think filming for
Tom’s Tales
and the whole rollout of how the video came together and when it came out. Because I didn’t really have a clue of what I was doing… All I knew was that I was going on trips and skating on these trips and I was just enjoying that moment in that process. And basically, I didn’t even really realise I was going to have a part in the video. I wasn’t even trying to film a part… I was going on these trips and I was skating… I still wanted to get footage on every single trip of course, and I was also filming with my homie Andres in Lugano. So I was still like, collecting footage, but it just seemed so random. It felt so casual to me. When I saw the part, I was really surprised that there was so much footage.
Surprise video part, that doesn’t happen often!
Martino Cattaneo: That made me feel like, “oh yeah, I can do this. I’m doing this, actually.”
When I spoke to (Chris) Pfanner he also said he thought right after the
Tom’s Tales
part was your moment…
Martino Cattaneo: I definitely got a lot of motivation from the
Tom’s Tales
project.
What was the response after that video then? You had the first part; things must have really started happening…
Martino Cattaneo: Definitely. It solidified the things with Vans and yeah, I got to go on more of their trips. Also I picked up more sponsors as well and was just invited on more trips in general.
Alexey Krasniy, early-grab backside wallride
Something Pfanner was saying is that he had faith in you for a long time, actually. I think it was the first Vans trip he went on with you when he became TM (a trip in Germany) and he said you were skating just amazingly. But shortly after that you broke your foot, you had the Lisfranc fracture, which took you out for a long time. This is why you don’t have a part in
Natural Born Cooler
. But then he said that after you came back from that injury that’s when you were filming for
Tom’s Tales
, and you were really focused and skating better than ever…
Martino Cattaneo: Well yeah actually, that was definitely a thing…
I swear you told me you changed your diet and got really into fitness and stretching and whatnot…
Martino Cattaneo: True. You know there’s just so much stuff that’s been going on through all these years… I’ve actually been thinking about it a lot. And since I’ve been back from Helsinki, I’ve just restarted my workout routine, as I’ve been slacking on it since November last year. That happened to me before, actually, when I broke my ankle, I had to get surgery and everything, but it was really quick, like three and a half months and I was back on my board. But with the Lisfranc injury, that was a really tricky one to recover from. So I ended up learning, like, looking into things, learning stuff about how your feet work, and in general how the body works. And I also started paying more attention to what I was eating and everything, and that made my body stronger. That made me more aware of things and that definitely triggered a lot of motivation to skate, film and get back at it and get something together.
Willow Voges Fernandes, ride-on 50-50 pop into the bank
When you were filming for
Tom’s Tales
, you were probably skating better than you ever were, but you didn’t even realise it yet, because your body was so much more conditioned. You maybe didn’t even understand it until you saw that part come out.
Martino Cattaneo: I also think that a big part of it was that for about 11 months (when I couldn’t skate) there were these moments where I was facing challenges that were pretty hard, like recovering from this injury and going through surgery and everything… But also missing skating so much, I think that on the mental side, facing those challenges of the rehab, the recovery from the injury, definitely helped me condition my mind to keep pushing. So probably after that, with all the hype from getting back to skating and all the new things that I learned and feeling stronger, I was more prepared to push my limits on skateboarding levels.
Simon Hallberg, backside nosebluntslide
The reason I’m asking these questions is because Simon Hallberg, who is a member of the Vans Scandinavian squad, but not on Vans Europe, was the MVP on the Helsinki trip according to many people I’ve talked to. Would you say that this trip was Simon’s breakout moment?
Martino Cattaneo: I feel like it certainly could be. He had a very, very good energy. It seemed like he was having the most fun on his board and he was actually doing the gnarliest stuff consistently on the trip. It was sick to witness.
What did you know about Simon before this trip?
Martino Cattaneo: I think I had heard of him pretty much, but I don’t think I stumbled upon his clips before. I had a vague image of him, but I didn’t really know him at all. But yeah, it was really impressive to see him skate pretty much anything. Any terrain, any object or thing, he killed it. I’m so glad I got to meet him and skate with him.
Alex Tsagalidis, crooked grind
Axel Cruysberghs
So I was speaking with (Chris) Pfanner about you and he said: “Whenever I showed up at any Euro championships, I was like, ‘God damn it, this kid’s here already. He’s gonna battle me for my rent money again and shit.’” You’ve had a long and prosperous career in skating, from contest grom to established pro, the question is, can you pinpoint a moment where everything clicked, or you had a particular breakout moment where suddenly things started really going right for you?
Axel Cruysberghs: I won this trip to Rotterdam to the World Championships in 2005, and that was a huge contest… I won the trip there because I did well in this contest series in Belgium. So this trip to this event I thought we were all going there to watch the World Championships, and then when I showed up, I was like, “Oh my God, this is so sick!” And then they’re like, “Yeah, are you excited to skate it?” And I was like, “Skate it? Hell, no!” and I started crying. I started crying because I looked around and I could see everybody was there, you know, like Bastien (Salabanzi) was there, Arto (Saari) was there, Leo Romero… Everybody that I knew in skating, or like from videos, was there. And I was like, “There’s no way I can skate this.”
You must have been pretty young then right?
Axel Cruysberghs: I was 12 or something, like, “What the fuck? Like, there’s no way…” And then I skated it, and I guess I did pretty well and then that’s when I met Oli Buergin, and he put me on Etnies literally right there. I remember we were about to leave Rotterdam, and he showed up to the hotel, and was just like, “Hey, we want to sponsor you,” or he asked my parents, I didn’t really…
Gabriel Bjørsvik, gap to backside lipslide
Yeah, you were 12!
Axel Cruysberghs: Yeah. And I feel like that from that moment on, that’s when everything started going well for me. That was the first thing where things came together, because after getting on Etnies I got a board sponsor, you know? And everything just kind of started going well, and they sent me on trips, to other contests, etc.
That’s pretty incredible, going to a contest where you didn’t even think you were skating in it and then skating it and doing well…
Axel Cruysberghs: I fully panicked, you know, when they said, “Oh, you’re skating.” I was in tears, like, “No, don’t make me skate! I’m here to watch!” I was just so scared. But I feel like in the end I did good, and it was a big moment for me.
Yeah it turned out well for you. Speaking of big moments: the Helsinki trip… Do you think that was Simon Hallberg’s breakout moment?
Axel Cruysberghs: I think so. I had only seen the cover he had with you guys, then you know you meet someone new and everything just works, yeah? It’s like, they are really nice, they are killing it, they are not complaining, and it all just fits in, you know? You’re just like, “Ah, this person has been part of this for a while,” but it’s not, it’s their first trip… So I feel like that was really nice. I was only on the trip for part of it, but then we have this group text, and I would keep looking after I left, I would keep seeing that this person did this, and then a lot of Simon, like, “Oh, he did that? He did this!” And I was like, “Wow, he’s killing it!” So that was really cool. I think for him that was for sure where it all clicked.
Schianta Lepori, frontside 50-50 to bank ride
Have you been on trips before and witnessed other people having these breakout moments?
Axel Cruysberghs: I’ve definitely seen this before. I feel like back in the day with Skankie (Daan van der Linden), when he was coming up… We went on a bunch of trips together then, and there was definitely a moment there where he was really fucking shit up. I was there for a couple of those trips where everyone was just like, “Wow!”
These were old Volcom trips?
Axel Cruysberghs: Yeah, so it’s been a while, but definitely when we were filming for the one video, and he got a cover, things were really going well for him there. He’d basically shoot enough for an interview every trip. It was really cool to see.
The cover of issue 56, Simon Hallberg backside 50-50ing in Helsinki.
Simon Hallberg
So how was your first trip with Pfanner and the Vans Europe crew?
Simon Hallberg: I must say it was really nice, because I was a bit nervous before, because I just heard that I was gonna stay in some house with like 20+ people and I didn’t really know anyone. But by the end of the trip, to go home and feel like I made so many new friends and had the best time, it was really sick. And everyone was just very loving and welcoming. So it was really cool.
How different was this Vans trip compared to the trips you take with the
Jante
guys?
Simon Hallberg: Well, it was a lot different, because, I mean, with the Jante guys it kind of feels like just the ordinary crew I skate with at home in Stockholm, but on a trip pretty much. I guess this was much more structured, they had three vans and all of that stuff. And Frida, Chris Pfanner’s mum, was there to cook food. Like to have that, and just wake up with a breakfast buffet, and then just go out skating, and you come home and have dinner, use the sauna… I feel like it’s a perfect schedule for getting footy.
Alexey Krasniy, backside boardslide to fakie
You got a
Free
cover there in Helsinki when you went last year with the Jante crew, and this year, from what everyone was saying, and the photos show this, you absolutely smashed it. What is it about Helsinki?
Simon Hallberg: That’s a good question… I think it’s maybe the community… Like everyone you meet there is so stoked and in tune with everything that goes on in skating. And then just the city in itself is incredible; I think the street spots are so good.
Who was showing you all the spots this time? Because looking at the raw footage, you skated a lot of different spots than the Jante trip.
Simon Hallberg: It was Eniz (Fazliov) and Tommi (Björk), also Aatsi (Aleksi Suovaara) showed us around. And I guess Doobie maybe knew some spots, because he lives there now.
Tommi Björk, gap to bluntslide
So I spoke to Axel, Martino, Pfanner and Albert before speaking to you and we talked about their respective breakout moments, and they all said that they thought this trip for you was your breakout moment, the moment where everything clicked. What do you think about that? Would you agree?
Simon Hallberg: Oh, it’s cool to hear that. But yeah, I guess it was actually… I felt like everything was just working out for me. Yeah, maybe it’s true.
At the start of the trip was the HELride comp, and I saw a bunch of clips of you skating in that, and you were skating really well; it was impressive. You weren’t too worn out after when the Vans trip started? Seems like a heavy start for a skate trip.
Simon Hallberg: I know… I think it was, like I said, with Frida cooking and everything, I could keep myself going kind of. But I don’t understand how I didn’t get more sore from skating…
Maybe the sauna helped and the good food. Did you guys drink a lot or no?
Simon Hallberg: I wasn’t really drinking. I think one evening we had a big night at the end of HELride, but then I was just like skating and going to sleep pretty early until the end of the trip with the Koff race. But then yeah, that was another big night.
Joseph Biais, frontside boardslide shove-it transfer
I know you were on Polar flow for quite a long time, but a few months ago, you made the move to Sour where you’re fully on the team. In fact, yourself and Axel (Berggren) are Sour’s only Ams. How much of a motivator has that been?
Simon Hallberg: Well, a massive one I would say. Being on Sour has always been my biggest dream with skating, because when it was still Sweet I had those DVDs and I went to the premiere when I was kid I thought it was the sickest video. So yeah, I think being accepted into the Sour crew really gave me a confidence boost.
What’s next for you then? What do you have planned?
Simon Hallberg: Well, Fritte and I have been filming this
Free
part, which I think will be ready after the summer. Also we’re filming this Sour project that I’m very excited about, that Fritte is also filming. We’re going on some trips for that… We’re going with Fritte to Croatia for the Vladimir Film Festival too, and then hopefully to Serbia this autumn.
And then of course this Vans Helsinki edit will be coming out in September or October. We’ll have to check back in with you later on to see how your life will have changed, because I’m sure it will.
Simon Hallberg: Yeah, hopefully. I mean, if I can get on Vans Europe… If that happens, then it would be really, really big for me.
Is he gonna…?
Yep he does, bluntslide to 50-50 by Simon Hallberg.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  April 27, 2017
Rory Milanes Interview
Rory Milanes, Helsinki, 2016. Ph. Justus Hirvi
He closed the show in the
V Nice
edit, and is about to wrap another part for Palace’s debut full-length video, but what keeps Rory Milanes in the groove? I find the rookie pro in a candid mood to talk deep fried biscuits, saving the dance floor, and Southbank’s enduring legacy.
Interview by Olly Todd
Rozzer, you’re pro, congrats mate! How does it feel?
It’s banging, I don’t have to work anymore. Yeah, life just got infinitely better.
Palace threw a surprise party for your board release. What went through your mind when you walked in the shop to see everyone there popping champagne, surrounded by all your pro boards on the wall
?
I was overwhelmed! There was so much attention on me. It was quite gnarly at first, but it gradually began to sink in and I just got more and more stoked. All of my close friends were there so that felt good. Mate, I was so stoked! I’ll never forget it.
Tailsiilde at a secret spot. Ph. Sam Ashley
Did you honestly have no idea? How did Lev manage to keep you away from the proceedings until you went to the shop?
Nope! Dunno, but he smashed it. Everyone did in fact. You know what though? I just remembered Toby (Shuall) actually mentioned to me a little while ago that he saw my graphic – two robots passing a nugget of weed – but I didn’t clock it. I must have been zooted. Or I was doing that thing that I tend to do sometimes when someone’s talking to me, and absolutely nothing is going in.
Filming’s well underway for the Palace video. How’s that been going?
Yeah great, mostly. I’ve been injured a lot these last two years, but that’s skating, and skating will always be there, so it’s fine. The video though, yeah, it’s happening. It’s gonna be so sick; people ain’t ready.
Ollie up the stairs Nosegrind pop-out in Pimlico. Ph. Sam Ashley
The video will be London-based, but in filming for some of the smaller video projects you’ve been on a bunch of trips. Do you have a favourite trip, and why?
Hmm, easily LA. Palace trips are just the one! It’s family. I don’t even rate LA that much as a city (maybe because I just don’t see myself living there) but the most recent trip there, I had stupid fun! The skating was banging, the yard we were staying at was a joke, DJing that party in Chateau Marmont, everyone we met and hung out with was friendly, smoking the gnarliest dank… Ah it was too good! The food was nuts too. Anyone who’s been to LA knows that the food’s insane. I just love trying bonkers shit when I’m in a different country even if it’s proper stinking. You just gotta do it, innit? In ’n’ Out Burger, Roscoe’s (House of Chicken & Waffles), Philippe’s (French Dip Sandwiches), all those diners, and going in on Mexican food. I remember some of the orders that Lev made to the house: ‘What’s the difference between the $250 deal and the $350 deal? Yeah the $350 one… What, deep fried Oreos? Yeah, two portions of those please.’
But growing up skating in London I guess it’s rad to have the opportunity to film a part wholly in your home city?
Yeah it’s good that the video is just in London. I’m stoked on that. And yeah, it always stokes me out to have footage here in London.
Nollie flip in Westminster. Ph. Sam Ashley
Revisiting old spots, or some new ones popping up?
Yeah, old spots in town mainly. No new spots really.
What was Southbank like when you first went there as a kid?
It was amazing. I hate to say it, but it was better. Blatantly better! I still love the place though. It was just great before because we all skated there religiously everyday. It was all open too, so flat ground was better, skating freely. The little banks were banging and there was that weird wooden beam which was fun. The tricks people were doing there when I was a kid used to stoke me out so much! That’s when I started getting properly gassed on skating, street skating. The place, the people, the whole vibe, I loved it.
Do you still skate Southbank much?
Yeah man, defo. I still like it. Amazing that it managed to stay there – I still cannot believe that. There’s always new things to try, endless possibilities ‘n’ that. Everyone skates that shit differently and that’s always really interesting to see. I prefer skating Stockwell, or the Ritzy (plaza in Brixton) though.
Nosegrind transfer in Helsinki. Ph. Sam Ashley
How has it changed over the years, both Southbank, and the wider London skate scene in general?
There’s the blocks that skaters put there. The people that used to skate there don’t anymore or rarely do. I guess people get old. Also though, I think some people out of our crew don’t like it as much as before. It’s WAY smaller and there is a railing that separates the spot from the pedestrians. I know some people think that’s a bit bone, and it is in a way; you feel like you’re in a zoo or something, but that never really bothered me. The whole of the Southbank area is much busier with tourists and people from out of town now, but I remember that whole zone used to be dead. It was empty. Then loads of bait restaurants started popping up and now the place is full of them, which really upsets me when I walk down there. I think the graff looks shite too, and I like graff. I love it in fact! But listen, I’m not slagging the place off. It’s still a wonderful skate spot and I value it enormously. It’s an OG spot. It’s legit as fuck. I’m just saying that it has changed over the years. As for the London skate scene I don’t know really; I don’t care.
What’s your day-to-day routine these days?
Tea in bed, jam for a bit, make a nice breakfast, try to start the day nice. Go filming with Brooks and whoever is on it or, if I’m not filming, I’ll go skate Stockwell or something. Then go home, jam for a bit, make dinner, go to the pub or go out or chill, watch some shit… Dunno, have a mix?
I know you find time to balance skating with other things. Can you talk a bit about music, DJing and stuff?
Yeah, sure, but skating has always been the main one. But definitely, I like having other things in my life. It’s healthier and it makes life better I think. When skating’s done, I don’t want to be slumped because I didn’t take an interest in other shit. Also, when you’re hurt, what you gonna do? Yeah, I buy records; I got decks. I love playing them. I play out sometimes and I’ve started doing nights, but mainly I enjoy it at home.
Who are you most stoked on right now music-wise?
As far as current tunes go: Robert Hood and Jeff Mills. They’re still making good music. I always get their latest tunes. Busy Signal, the Roots & Chalice mix, Chronixx is wicked! It’s mostly older music that I find myself listening to these days. There’s still new stuff about and that’s great but they don’t make ‘em like they used to.
Switch crooked grind in Helsinki. Ph. Justus Hirvi
What track would you play to get a waning dance floor on its feet?
Greg Cash ‘Party Chat’.
What track would you play to me in the car on way back from Glasto
avec
gnarly hangover?
Glasto, ha ha, I remember that! The state of people there – fuckin’ hell! That was when we first proper hung out innit. OK sorry, tune to sort us out coming back from Glastonbury: Neil Young ‘On The Beach’.
What else floats your boat off the board?
Not a huge amount, but I like reading books and I like watching films or documentaries when they’re good. Going out for dinner. I love to cook also. Checking galleries sometimes. Definitely checking music – there’s always lots on in London. Taking care of the garden. I really like ‘pinting’; I’m really good at it. Been doing it for a while. Going away is always nice too.
Social media ain’t your bag. Props. But do you have an opinion about its place in skating? I heard the other day about someone getting sponsored solely off the back of Instagram and I almost spat out my tea.
Almost spat your tea out, lolz. Yep, that’s bonkers. That’s how it is now, is it? Wow!
Social media’s place in skating, hmm, are we talking about Instagram? I don’t have a clue what goes on in that world. Am I missing out? I’m tempted to say ‘Hmm, no?’ I heard that some people get upset if they don’t get enough ‘likes’. That’s one of the most depressing things I’ve ever heard! ‘Why doesn’t Rory have Instagram?’ That cracks me up! I really don’t want to get addicted to that shit and it doesn’t really interest me. I like my shit Nokia! I guess social media’s good from a business aspect. I totally understand that. I don’t have a business though, and I don’t want to promote my personal life.
Any plans for the future? Do you see yourself staying living in London for the foreseeable?
Who knows? I’m open to living outside of London, but at the same time I feel like I’d find it hard to leave. I’m comfortable here, and I get to go away quite a lot with skating, so that helps to not get over being in the same place. I’d like to live in the country when I’m older.
Nosebluntslide to the lower ledge in Hyde Park, London. Ph. Sam Ashley
Any sunny skate sojourns lined up now the dark nights are drawing in?
‘Sojourns’, never heard that word before. Holidays? Hell yeah motherfucker! I’m gonna go back to Yard (Jamaica) because I love the place, and I’m going to Colombia.
Shout outs, big ups, holla atcha boys etc…
No thanks!

================================================================================

BY Will  •  July 31, 2024
Pop’s Labour of Love
Yeelen Moens, ride-on backside nosegrind firecracker, Antwerp
Photography by DVL
Words by Will Harmon
“Are full-lengths done?” I can’t tell you how many times I read that line in skate media a decade ago, and I’m not ashamed to admit that I’m guilty of asking that question myself… The big worry was that the Internet and social media’s effect on our attention spans would kill off this staple of skateboarding culture, but then something happened to kill off that ubiquitous line of inquiry… After 20 years of existence Supreme released a full-length skate video,
Cherry
, by William Strobeck, in 2014. Similarly Palace, founded in 2009, released their
first full-length
in 2017 (along with opening a free skatepark I might add). And then there’s HUF, founded in 2004, and releasing their first
full video
in 2023. I’ve mentioned Supreme, Palace and HUF because although they produce a lot of things (skateboards, pocket pussies, bricks, etc.), they are most well-known for the clothing they make. It’s no secret that soft goods, with their higher mark-ups, are the key to success for many skate brands, and the beauty of it is that everyone can wear your garms, not just skaters. Rappers, Pop stars, influencers, Hollywood actors and more have all worn these brands’ clothes, and don’t forget about the hypebeasts! By all accounts, these brands don’t need to make a long, expensive video to appeal to skateboarders, their clothes sell just fine without it, but still, they have chosen to. Why is that?
Rob Maatman, 360 flip to fakie, Rotterdam
This question was on my mind last week when I talked to Peter Kolks, co-owner of Amsterdam based clothing brand
Pop Trading Company
. Like Supreme, Palace and HUF, Pop Trading Co has made a name for itself through their finely crafted garments, and like the others, Pop isn’t shy about doing a collab as well (i.e. Carhartt, Dancer, Paul Smith, Burberry, Dickies, New Balance, adidas, Vans, Converse, etc.). Pop too is about to release their first full-length skate video. And maybe I’m crazy, but it seems to me that holding the majority of your video output for a few years wouldn’t be the smartest business decision for a brand. “It’s completely not feasible to do it.” Peter said. “It’s so much money you throw at it, all the travel, all the products, you have the riders and the filmmakers, you know, so much goes into it. If you have an accountant look at it, it doesn’t make any fucking sense.” We’ll get back to this discussion later, but first, let’s rewind a bit…
Issey Kumatani, backside smith grind, Rotterdam
Pop Trading Company was founded in the Netherlands by Kolks and Ric van Rest in 2013. What was first a distro company distributing Palace, Magenta and Polar in Benelux, eventually morphed into a clothing brand… “We already had a little team of riders, Sebastian (van Zadelhoff) and Willem (van Dijk) were already on, supported by Palace and Magenta.” Peter said. “We already did all the shit like events and video premieres, and it started to get to a point where we wanted to do our own little apparel. I was working for a guy called Piet Parra, who you may know through Tired Skateboards, or his brand Parra. He was basically like, ‘Hey, I think your logo is super strong and you have a team already. I can link you with all my factories in Portugal and the US…’ So in 2015 we really started to develop our clothing.” Having both worked at a skate shop together (Frisco in Arnhem) paired with stints working at streetwear and menswear stores before starting Pop, Peter and Ric were well-equipped to venture into the clothing world.
Yeelen Moens, ollie up frontside wallride yanked to fakie, Brussels
“When we were considering doing our own stuff, it was mainly like, hey, if we are in a skate shop, and you flick through a clothing rail, it’s mainly Fruit of the Loom or Gildan t-shirts, made in China and I’m not saying that it’s not quality, it could be a good t-shirt, but there’s not a lot of thought into the product. It’s mainly like a print on a blank tee. So we really wanted to develop our own shirts, have them made in Portugal, and if you flick through a rail or take them off a shelf, you’d be like, ‘Oh, what the fuck is this? It’s different; it feels different.’” And Peter’s not wrong, if you own or have seen any Pop clothing, you’ll have noticed that, quality-wise, it’s a step above most other skate gear out there. “From the beginning we really fucked with the contrast of menswear and skateboarding and like the thin line between that. And then, the first season when we did our own range, we sold it to Slam City Skates, Street Machine in Copenhagen and Supreme in Paris. So we had some quite good retailers already, and that meant that some people were looking at us.”
Jaïr Gravenberch, kickflip, The Hague
With one hand in the skate world and the other in men’s fashion in 2016 Pop established a showroom in Paris for men’s fashion week. This of course boosted the brand’s profile in the fashion world and twice a year the team would travel to Paris. Whilst Peter and Ric were doing their business deals and showing the new line, the Pop team would skate in Paris all week to film for a Pop clip. Pop clips were short Vimeo edits (
the first one
came out in 2014), showcasing Pop’s riders, primarily skating their home turf (The Netherlands and Belgium), always in black and white and with no music. These Paris trips were of course exciting for the team, and they even helped secure a new French rider, Jérôme Sossou, but perhaps the most noteworthy result of these trips was that Jan Maarten, better known as Sneep (also the guy behind
@memoryscreen
), filmed an entire Pop clip.
Issey Kumatani, ollie over to backside lipslide, Rotterdam
“Yeah at first Sami (El Hassani) worked more on the Pop videos and I tried to keep the Bombaklats alive.” Sneep told me. Of course Sneep had contributed clips to Pop here and there, but he had been primarily focused on making Bombaklats videos with Sami and the Rotterdam heads. “
This is not the new Bombaklats video
was all filmed by me, that’s why I named it that. It wasn’t an original Bombaklats video (involving Sami and Sneep).” It was 2018 when Sneep made that
Pop clip (#35)
, that same year he filmed/edited a
Bastiaan van Zadelhoff part
for the brand. “Before Pop clip #35 Sami was pretty much the main filmer for Pop, but he got more into commercial work, and is currently doing all kinds of jobs as a DOP.” said Sneep. 2018 was the start of a deeper relationship with Sneep and Pop Trading Company, he went on to film and edit the next few Pop clips. The last Pop clip was
#40
, which came out early 2020.
Rob Maatman, wallride nollie out, Rotterdam
In 2020, Pop Trading Company started making skateboards. Peter explained to me that they hesitated to do this for a long time. After all, they started out as a distributor, selling other brands’ boards to shops, they didn’t want to step on any toes. But as Pop grew as a clothing brand they had to scale back their distribution side of the business. By 2020 they were only distributing Palace boards and Quasi. “After a while it just made sense.” Peter said. “It also meant we could support our riders in a different way. Apart from Yeelen (Moens) on Antiz, everyone on Pop is on the boards. Becoming a board brand was also this thing where we could focus more on people. It’s a struggle for skaters… I get it, if you’re on Krooked or Anti Hero UK or whatever, it’s very hard to get through to the brand over there in the US. So taking this step meant there was more focus on these guys.” Sneep went on to film and edit the
Pop Skateboards Promo
, which came out in May 2021, then, right after, he and the crew immediately started working on a full-length Pop video.
Billy Hoogendijk, 360 flip from the bump, The Hague
The full-length, simply titled
“Pop”
, which has already premiered in Amsterdam, that you’re getting a glimpse of via Davy’s photos in this, is essentially what this article is about. “Our main worry is: Are people even gonna watch it? Because it’s a 48-minute video.” said Peter. “That’s why we were doing all these seated premieres, then we can get people to sit down, take the time, and really soak it in and enjoy it.” By the time you read this “Pop” will have premiered in Antwerp. Paris, London, Tokyo and more locations throughout July. But inevitably the majority of people will see this video after its online release. They’ll see a 45-second Instagram clip and decide if it’s worth going to YouTube and watching the full thing. It is 2024, that’s just the reality of it, you need to feed the Social Media beast to get people’s attention. “Like you have to kind of do it these days,” Peter said about social media. “But do you have to do it these days? Because it’s almost like a cannibalising system, right? How I view social media and the landscape that we’re in, it’s almost like this thing where you can keep on feeding it, and feeding it, but it’s not going to give you the satisfaction that we want from it. I think it’s almost like fuck that, you know, what are we doing? Let’s at least make something that we really put everything into and make it the best thing possible.”
Pascal Moelaert, backside 180 kickflip, Amsterdam
I think it’s an apt place to return to the question of, “Why make a full-length?” For all the time, effort and resources it takes, is it really worth it? I posed this question to Peter: “Back in the day you would make a DVD or VHS tape, and I guess some of the big videos back in the day, they would make money on making a video, that’s reasonable to assume, but in this day and age content is so fucking disposable, right? It’s almost like, sometimes you consider, ’Why the fuck are we even making all this stuff happen?’ The impact that videos used to have, like
Eastern Exposure 3
,
Photosynthesis
or
Yeah Right!
, you know, brands were built on that, it would last for three, four years, the relevance of it, you know? And you’d watch that video 1000 times. So the influence of that was so big. And I guess, that’s the main reason we were like, ‘Let’s make this happen.’”
Jérôme Sossou, backside 50-50, Rotterdam
Will this increase the sales of Pop clothes or boards? Maybe, but it really doesn’t matter for Peter and the crew, after all, it’s for the love. “It’s really like this thing that’s ours, you know, it’s a testament of time.” Peter says. “We want to make a mark in a sense. And I guess even though in this day and age, it might be stupid or naive, but maybe 10 years from now, people will still be like, ‘hey, they did this!’, because I think the landscape five years from now will definitely be completely different than it is now. And I think the abundance of content will make people realise, it’s the quality of things that people will remember. No one is going to remember that particular Instagram post from 10 years ago, and good luck finding it! And we spoke about this after the premiere, you have a 2-second clip, in a 48-minute video, which Sneep and the boys went out to get and it was a five-hour day, didn’t get the trick, go back, another fucking 6-hour day, get kicked out, then they go back. So it’s more than a day worth of work, and Sneep being in the fucking gutter for ages, and then it’s two seconds in this whole video, right? It’s like the amount of work and also the editing and all this stuff, which took nine months, and then Patrick Louwerse, our director friend, filmed all these interludes for us… There’s just so much fucking effort involved. It’s a labour of love basically, that’s how I see it. That’s why we wanted to do this. It’s because we really love this fucking thing. It’s this thing where you can really make something that’s your own. I think the main idea is, at least how we’ve viewed it, is that this video is going to be our legacy.”
Tomas De Keulenaer, backside tailslide, Arnhem. Ph. Hugo Snelooper
Check out
@poptradingcompany
for “Pop” local premiere info or keep your eyes peeled for the online release very soon.
View Gallery | 2 images

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  December 15, 2021
#FSMTOP10 2021
I’ll keep this intro short because against my better judgement, I’ve rambled on like a babbling alcoholic below. What I will say is this: isn’t it refreshing to be able to occasionally watch decent skate videos that don’t have a
Thrasher
logo at the start?
That’s no diss on
Thrasher
but their monopoly on all things video related is approaching imperial proportions at times. Hence why I’m here bending your collective ears and ringing a little bell in honour of
Free
mag’s own video output over the last 12 months.
My brief was to pick my own favourite 10 videos that
Free
had uploaded to their YouTube this year. No money in brown envelopes changed hands and the only criteria I was working under was, ‘can we have it by the 15th of December?’
I thought it might be interesting to get an insight into
Free
’s own criteria for deciding what does and does not get selected to be uploaded but to be honest they kind of swerved the question. I got an answer but it boiled down to, ‘if we like it, we’ll hype it’, which is a noble statement but it doesn’t really help me, nor will it comfort anybody who’s been denied but hey ho, it’s 2021, worse things can (and will) happen no doubt.
So with the above said – here are the clips I liked best for reasons ranging from the obvious to the obscure.
Shout out to everyone filming skate videos for the culture: you all rule.
–Ben Powell
Tyler Surrey – Vagando
According to the Internet, ‘Vagando’ means ‘wandering’ in Spanish so I’m going to guess that this Tyler Surrey clip is so entitled in reference to him casually knocking about Spain and fucking spots up. The Romantic connotations of ‘wandering’ seem to be deliberately misleading here though: this isn’t some Baudelaire flâneur business. Whilst it might be poetically correct to suggest that Tyler Surrey is loafing around various Spanish cities observing urban life and musing on it for aesthetic purposes – he’s also unleashing the quietest, least check me out 4-and-a-half minutes of pure foot mathematics I’ve seen in ages.
Reading the paragraph above back, I’ve clearly strayed into highbrow territory as befits skating of this standard. To the casual observer, ‘creative skateboarding’ is often mislabeled, with lazy, half-arsed, simulacra of somebody else’s copy of something actually worthwhile getting praised as being imaginative.
You know what I mean – parts with a handful of actual tricks in them and then a load of filler bullshit disguised as creativity that just stinks of being thirsty for ‘going viral’. Tyler Surrey’s output, and this clip in particular, is the diametric opposite of the above and instead represents a person who has picked up the gauntlet of sponsorship and responded with actual thoughts.
Let’s be honest, the first two lines at that Madrid ledge spot basically shit on lots of recorded ‘creative skateboarding’ that’s been puked into the ether in the last year. Hard way fakie ollie fakie 5.0, frontside half cab flip out at speed in a line with perfect stomped catch. Are you fucking mad? Powerful arm shapes on the switch heel front board too.
I’m going to give myself the liberty of adding a narrative to this part and to Tyler’s skating that very possibility isn’t present but it’s well meant.
There are so many hard tricks in here and so much board control that watching it has even convinced my fat lazy arse that I could frontside nollie heel into fakie manual if I just chilled hard enough in the Spanish sun. (I couldn’t obviously but that’s not the point). Good skate clips are supposed to do that: they’re supposed to be aspirational and make you want to try. This does both.
The whole vibe is very modest, Tyler seems that way too: so much so that there are a couple tricks where it looks as though he’s apologizing for them not being hard enough. Like, ‘Yo, this nollie heel nosewheelie isn’t that sick so I’ve brought a really narrow doorway to ride off through just so it doesn’t seem like I’m being arrogant.’ What a legend. You could probably go for tapas with him and he’d never even mention he was sponsored.
Basically there’s nothing negative to say here, which in 2021, is more rare than it ought to be. There are even two ‘viral style’ tricks thrown in (the trampoline one and the primo grind) for good measure but no attempt to scream, ‘look at me! I’m being creative!’ like a bellend in a wolf fleece for Insta clout. He just does the tricks because he’s able to.
All told – he kills it, the knitwear count is high, and the last ollie over the rail that ended up on the cover of
Free
is crackers and involves a heavy hill bomb without the need for a bunch of self-conscious machismo crotch grabbing.
Jameel Douglas – Loophole Wheels ‘New Doors Have Opened’
That’s a very SF sounding title isn’t it? Where are these new doors? Are they the same ones that Tyler Surrey carries around with him to add some spice to his manuals? Regardless, this is raw SF street skating like it’s meant to look.
I mention in one of these other rambles about how everyone needs a gimmick these days; well in Jameel Douglas’ case his gimmick is looking absolutely amazing whilst riding a skateboard. You can have all the bells and whistles you like, death-defying stunts, unseen spots, NBDs etc, etc but nothing is ever going to make a video clip more rewatchable than a style like this dude’s.
Given that this part is taken from a wheel company video (SF-based Loophole wheels to be exact) it’s probably not going to be a surprise that there’s a lot of powersliding and urethane depleting hill skating going down. The SF downhill wallride meme is somewhat threadbare by now but Jameel absolutely adds plenty of flavour of his own: the frontside wallride G-turn thing in particular is nuts. Liked that one.
Loophole
wheels are hand cut I believe which reduces wastage and puts them firmly into the ‘well yes, we’re dealing with truly poisonous chemicals here but at least we’re trying to be environmentally inclined’ category. I bet Jameel recycles too.
With Zach Chamberlin at the wheel (both literally and metaphorically) if you know your shit then you’ll be expecting expertly handled VX1000 footage, SF spots that you might not have already seem 1 million times and a generally summery, tasteful approach to being dope: all of which is served up in this short but very rewatchable piece.
Magenta (who Zach Chamberlin is also associated with) used to get a lot of stick for their minimalist approach to video making, whereas this part (and the whole
Loophole video it’s from
) manages to tread the fine line between keeping it too pure and falling into the less is less trap, rather than less is more.
Trying to explain why this is such a good watch is a bit like trying to explain why seeing a beautiful woman playing the saxophone in the rain rings with poetic meaning: effectively it’s self-evident. Not every part has to be a manifesto of intent, sometimes great style, great filming, smooth music and an iconic city backdrop is enough. In this instance, that’s the case. Go watch it.
Oh yeah – major shout out to the pop shove front crook revert on the bank. Utterly buttery.
Dan Fisher-Eustance’s Free Part
Couldn’t really sleep on this one for a number of reasons. First off,
Free
favourite and expert wrangler of the much-fetishised Sony VX1000, Quentin Guthrie, filmed it. His rapport with the Victorian filming gun is well documented and he’s been churning out mainly UK based gold for years now.
His handle on Instagram is
@pertharms
, which I thought for the longest time was an ode to the perkiness of one of
Free
’s softly spoken editors Will Harmon. As in, ‘he’s lovely Will isn’t he?’ ‘Who, Pert Harms?’ It turns out that this mistake was fairly common and in fact his Insta name should be read ‘Perth Arms’ and is a Western Australian way of mocking people’s fake ride away arm steez.
Beyond VX wanking and confusing nomenclature, this Dan Fisher-Eustance Free part has made its way into my top ten because he makes very hard skateboarding look good. Obviously he’s ably assisted by Quentin’s excellent fish eye and clever editing but mise en scene alone means nothing: with no subject, we’d be discussing low pixel rate documentation of rusty ledges outside Sainsbury’s.
Before we go any further, I’m going to address the double-barreled elephant in the room – his name is far too long and easy to misspell so I’m abbreviating it to DFE. Whilst that kind of sounds like a discount furniture shop, it’s going to make writing this easier for me so, tough tits.
Hailing from Brighton originally, DFE has, in time-honoured style, moved to London and transferred the skills he’s developed at The Level skatepark to the street spots of the capital. As such, he went from being a cheery youth dropping switch ledge bangers amidst the clouds of Ket Wenns (Ketamine Wennings) swarming his home spots, to a fully sponno’d up London head fairly quickly.
I’m not sure if he’s posh or not but it’s a bold move for a well-dressed white dude to run black Superstars and film ledge tricks set to Viktor Vaughan (rest in peace). He pulls it off though. Shout out to DFE for filming a backside version of the trick (half cab 5.0 180) that everybody was shitting themselves about Will Marshall doing in the latest Dime clip first too. They’re both well-dressed midgets though so if it came to blows, at least it would be even.
On the subject of being well dressed: DFE has posted some fits here. This guy is not afraid to put a full package on in one go, nor is he scared to run a fully coordinated white outfit at Southbank, a spot not known for its cleanliness.
In the wrong hands some of DFE’s fits would look a bit try hard, but if you’re wearing them doing the stuff he is then you’re good. Better to look a bit ‘package day’ than to film a section looking like you’ve covered yourself in glue and run through Oxfam I suppose. Another point in DFE’s favour is that he’s obviously sound since he’s let his mate Dougie George film by far the best trick in the Southbank interlude. Shows strong character, to let your boy do you like that.
Is it too wanky to talk about ‘sound design’ in a 6-minute YouTube video filmed on a 25-year-old camera? If it isn’t then knuckles to Quentin for all the interesting bits of audio throughout this. Gave it a bit of an otherworldly feel which is pretty hard when your film making is taking place whilst genuflecting in junkie urine round the back of Victoria coach station. Basically, I like nearly all of this – it’s got lots of hard tricks filmed really well and it’s got cameos by his Brighton homies which shows that he hasn’t fallen victim to London Chameleon Disorder and disowned his past as soon as he inhaled his first balloon in Peckham.
Last words – switch ollieing that rail in Brighton is fucking diesel and switch backside 360 ollies definitely look better if your feet stay on them.
Brayan Albarenga x Yoryo
Let’s not mess about here: every single trick in this part is pinnacle.
When you have this much skill and a style this beautiful there is absolutely no need to be throwing your tender body down sets of stairs or onto handrails like an attention seeking child.
Barcelona has produced a lot of amazing skateboarders, along with providing a low effort backdrop for a lot of highly paid visitors to book hotels and re-film tricks already done by local heads. These days, it’s Barcelona’s indigenous skaters who are finally getting some shine after years of watching ABDs get jerked off by a skate media ignorant as to what was happening in the city before it was ‘discovered’ by everyone else.
Brayan’s lineage seems, at least in terms of style and tricks, to follow in the footsteps of other delicately gifted Barceloni. You can sense the influence of BCN OGs like Enrique Lorenzo, Pablo Dominguez and Raul Navarro in the way Brayan skates. Nothing is done the easy way – every ledge or manny move has that extra finesse to make it just that bit harder or more beautiful than any other version you’ve seen before.
The primary difference here is that yeah, technical difficulty is of paramount importance but, (and it’s a big but), the tech is tasteful and aesthetically pleasing.
Switch front heel nose manny revert for example – what a combo: likewise, his trick on the lower level manny pad at MACBA. Generally I’m not a big fan of those manny tricks where people go into a nosewheelie and then do a trick in the middle back to a different manual. There are lots of reasons for not feeling them: Joey Brezinski is one; the other is that in the wrong hands these kind of multi combos can look like the skater is having a seizure midway through what might otherwise be a tasty move. In this dude’s hands though, everything is calm.
Nosewheelie to nollie frontside flip midway back to fakie manual – it’s difficult enough to type. Hopefully any aspiring balancers watching this who have even the slightest intention of filming the old nosewheelie to fakie manual, which is NEVER legit, will now leave it the fuck alone as Brayan has snuffed it out forever.
I’m sure there will be plenty of people who won’t like this video part because it’s ‘not gnarly enough’ or ‘he doesn’t go fast enough’. To those knobheads I say this: get fucked. The filming and editing is cohesive, the Parrita track is basically serenading the city as though she was beautiful woman and the spots? Well, it’s Barca isn’t it? Architectural perfection. Even his fits are good: Stan Smiths and ledge tech? Come on…
I’m feeling every single piece of this one; from the 1980s footballer/Spanish Anarchist haircut and moustache, through to the fact that he’s constantly grinning regardless of the mind-bogglingly hard tricks he’s doing.
Anyone who has ever disgraced themselves on Las Ramblas or been thrown out of one of the porno cinemas after a hash-induced moment of genital misadventure is morally obliged to watch this part on repeat.
This is the city of Barcelona in skateboarding form: stylish, artistic, creative, innovative and modestly imposing. Put the Damm Limon down and go inside MACBA for once, you might learn something.
Maité Steenhoudt: It’s Important to Try
And now for something completely different…
The top YouTube comment on this one reads, ‘Everything about this clip is good for the soul’ and I wholeheartedly agree. Maité rips, everyone knows that already, it’s the other things she brings that make her a valuable human in today’s skateboarding universe. As conscious as it no doubt is, her innocent, child-like, wide-eyed commitment to personally having fun and for using her elevated sponsored status to force feed the cynical with a reminder of why you skate in the first place is something to be cherished.
All the daft shit at the beginning with the ‘special effects’ and her appearing in a red phone box; it’s just so wholesome. You’ll probably not think it’s cool if you’re an angry tit who judges skateboarding via the medium of counting things but if your mindset is like that, you’re unlikely to be reading this anyway.
I guess this clip is probably the furthest away from a traditional single skater section of the ten and is closer to a tongue-in-cheek mockumentary but it still deserves its place here. In 2021, good skateboarding is everywhere, so much so that it’s no longer enough to just do hard tricks in front of a recording device.
Everybody needs a gimmick these days and it seems like hers is really enjoying skateboarding. Could be worse, eh?
This Maité piece is a kind of kid’s TV perspective that focuses on the magical joy of riding a kid’s toy. Very much at the reverse end of the spectrum from the ‘gang gang on road busting up the spots’ vibe which has invaded skateboard film making a bit of late. There’s space for the angry gangsters and the Muppets in the current year – let’s all have a tea party.
Honestly, if the sight of a Belgian woman clownishly mugging somebody for their bike and then cycling through the London streets reciting trick names doesn’t make you chuckle then you need to unscrew your screw face a bit. It’s daft and it’s meant to be. Even Jake Snelling’s down and he could demolish a Starbucks with his head. Speaking of Jake Snelling, he, along with Rich West, Nasir Roumou, Ewen Bower, Alex Hallford and a host of other London heads connected to Stockwell and Hackney Bumps pop up as supporting characters. This fits with the atmosphere of the whole thing which is absolutely not on a ‘I’m Maité and I have an adidas shoe, bear witness to my superhuman abilities and buy some product’ tip.
Trick-wise it’ll be what you’re expecting if you know Maité. Lots of loose-limbed transition obscurities, funny faces to camera and smiling. I dunno if it’s the accent or the weirdly coloured eyebrows but Maité reminds me of Joan of Arc, (if Joan of Arc got pissed and smoked weed obviously). Or Alice in Wonderland I guess, or other vaguely appropriate comparisons. Regardless, this will make you pine for warm weather and dossing about with your mates and, best of all, there’s only one of her now trademark wacky smith stalls on this and she only does it to provide an opportunity for Snelling to lob his blokeish self over her petite frame for lolz.
Noah Mahieu – Zen Brain
What the fuck is going on? Is this kid 10 years old? How can you be this good at anything and still look like a drawing of the healthiest kid in France?
Weirdly, the first thought that came into my head when I watched this was, ‘Isn’t that the same spot from Jason Lee’s Video Days section?’
The setting of the first line after his name comes up in horror movie writing with a spider web – the half cab followed by the ride on back tail 360 out – looked familiar so I checked. I was correct; it’s the same spot where Jason Lee also does a line with a half cab down the top stairs and a feeble grind, (Gonz does a caveman dark slide there too).
I’m not sure which is more surprising, the fact that I noticed that, or the fact that any building in southern California is still standing 30 years later given that most of them are made from dry toilet roll.
With the above aside out of the way, the immediate mention of Blind’s
Video Days
in relation to this
Zen Brain
part makes sense. Clearly this little fella is on some skate prodigy trajectory. Comparing anybody to Video Days era Mariano is a strong claim I know, but look at this kid.
I wonder what the title refers to. Is he Zen maybe? He does look pretty composed whilst flying down big rails and he lives in Seignosse, which is surfy I think. Maybe he’s already into all that pseudo-Buddhist stuff, only the French version where you get to stuff your face with expensive cheese whilst swerving the emptiness of the material world?
Skills-wise, my man’s got the full kit: rolling into massive bowls and concrete vert ramps, tech street moves, big pop, rail gallantry: it’s all there on tap.
Another thing that stood out was that he’s on trend with the ride-on tricks but does some actually sick ones and added a bit of personal spice to a wearied category. In particular, the ride on 5050 on the abstract looking handrail with the corners is fantastic. It’s made even more fantastic by the fact that it’s got Olympic athlete BGPs with Vincent Milou hugging him as he rides away from this Rubix Snake of a ride-on.
Nouvelle-Aquitaine represent!
There’s really not that much more explanation needed as to why this is one of the ten best
Free
videos of 2021. Watch it if you haven’t and get clued up on the future before it happens. Little man is going to follow in the footsteps of Oski, Daan, Bastien and all the other children of Europe who’ve gone on to make waves globally.
Charles
Did I miss a meeting? Has Charlie Munro been rebranded?
To a British ear, ‘Charles’ is always going to sound posh in comparison to the working class ‘Charlie’ and as such switches the vibe up somewhat from plucky outsider to chinless aristocrat. Seems like an odd decision to make once everyone is used to his old name though. Maybe it’s because Palace’s Charlie Birch is on the come up and we need to differentiate between the ginger-haired power midget and the lanky Scouser with long black hair, just in case people get confused?
For whatever reason, this edit got a bit of a kicking on the Slap forum. Or to be more precise, the filming and editing did. I was surprised to see this unfold amongst the generally not at all negative or picky denizens of that shit-talking clubhouse. I jest of course, the neggy dads need their outlet too but personally I thought the filming and editing was cool, if a bit austere.
Lots of this part looks as though it was filmed during one or more of the many Covid lockdowns that have happened over the last year. Despite being shot (mainly at least) in London, one of the busiest cities on the planet, there are barely any lurkers or bystanders in the background in the majority of the clips.
That, combined with the morose track and repeated cuts to Charles’ disappointed face post-trick, gave this a bit of a maudlin feel if I’m honest.
Similar to how that whole generator and lights craze seemed to result in videos where nobody looked like they were enjoying themselves because they’d been trapped at the spot for 10 hours trying the same trick.
With that said, it’s mind blowing that a kid from Cambridge who quit skating between 13 and 18 has ended up riding for the nearest thing to a legit super team that modern skateboarding has.
Highlights trick wise for me were the fakie flip over the Bridgewater rail in Manchester, (which is absolutely rinsed but he still found an NBD); the nollie noseslide big spin and the half cab flip into the bank where he goes into 50-50 on the kerb on the ride out. Those are all peak performance maneuvers right there.
I’ve not even mentioned the half cab heel over the concrete bollard into the bank made of Victorian cobbles deep in smackville in Leeds. I chuckled to myself imagining P-Rod watching this and asking, ‘Hey Charles, the next time we’re in the UK can you please absolutely guarantee that you will take me nowhere near that excuse for a spot?’
I also liked the way there are a few slams and non-makes edited into the bangers: kind of added to that overall mournful feel that anyone who lives on this piss wet island run by self-serving rich bastards will know only too well. Maybe that’s why Charles looks so upset so often throughout, maybe in his head he’s thinking, ‘stoked to be filming this Primitive edit out here in So Cal’ only to land the trick and realise that he’s still in Catford and it’s still grey and freezing and every spot is made from century old bricks and tramp’s tears. Poor bastard.
It’s probably wise to wind in the attempts to be funny here though and reiterate that I’ve picked this as one of the
Free
top ten because it’s really, really good.
Not least because I once saw Charles (back when he was still known as Charlie) rip his t-shirt off outside a pub in Northampton and one-bang three aggy Kevs in quick succession after they’d decided to start a fight with his mate following a skate contest. Charles is not just super good at skateboarding; he’s equally good at fighting when necessary. Cheer up goth.
e2 Solutions – Eetu Toropainen
Wasn’t this kid on Etnies about a week ago? When did he get Swooshed?
My WiFi goes down for five minutes and when I return everybody with more than 20k Instagram followers is running Stock X resell SB bangers whilst filming wallies. The humanity of it, honestly…
I’ve got another question too. What’s ‘e2 Solutions’? It sounds like a plumbing company or somebody you’d call if a pigeon had died down the back of the oven. Do skaters ride for plumbing companies in Finland? It wouldn’t surprise me.
Every Finn I’ve ever met has been absolutely insane. And I mean that in a good way. Like ‘insane’ in a ‘let’s go sing Venus in Furs in the karaoke bar at 5.30 am and then go straight to work designing mobile phones with no sleep’ way.
Is it a Northern thing? Having like six months of darkness and it being minus 500 degrees for most of the year? Is that why they’re all so good at skating? I guess they need to compress twelve months of ripping into the tiny amount of time that it’s warm enough to go outside. I could be wrong but it looks to me like this whole section was filmed in Finland. So they can’t have had much time to compile it, I mean he’s wearing shorts in a few of the clips. Madman.
Insane talent on display here though: Eetu skates mad fast and does all kinds of actually creative things which involve thought and skill rather than balancing an iPhone on a hackey sack and trying the same late flip dogshit 3000 times until you’ve landed it. This kid looks well healthy. He must be too young to drink ethanol yet, or maybe it’s in his Element contract that he has to stay away from the lighter fluid until the snow season begins in November. Either way, he’s destined for greatness I think. Let’s just hope he follows the Arto path rather than the path of that Finnish guy who used to be on The Firm. I think he sells houses or is big on TikTok or something now.
There are some really cool looking spots on here. Why are architects in that part of the world allowed to build solid marble waves or transitioned tunnels as street furniture? Are they part of a different union or something or does the UK just have shitty architects? With that said, this section does contain one of the worst DIY spots that I’ve ever seen. It looks like three mini jersey barriers with a cough’s worth of cement forming the ‘transition’. Somehow this crazy cunt backside ollies from the first to the last one and lands into it: not possible.
There’s great tempo to this section, little man starts to go turbo tech as the saxophone solo kicks in and then the last three enders are without music. Kind of gives a pause to appreciate how good he is. That one spot, the metal halfpipe thing with the logs above it: somebody is taking the piss here – that can’t be just in the forest, can it? What the fuck is it for? Grizzly bear discos?
He looks mad young this kid – he’s going to be massive as long as he leaves the booze outside of the sauna for a few years first. Big up e2 Solutions (I think).
Leonardo Favaro – OBRIGADO MKD
Did anyone order 1980s Gothic shoe gaze, XXXL denim shorts and massive ollies in Nike Air Trainer 1s? Turns out I fucking did. This part is nothing short of perfect as far as I’m concerned and had I been asked to rank these ten videos in order (I wasn’t) then Leonardo Favaro’s would be number 1.
I consider myself something of a geek when it comes to skateboarding but I had never heard of him prior to watching this when it first dropped in August. Drawn in by the banging thumbnail that looks like he’s been shot out of a cannon, I pressed play with little to no expectations. Within seconds I was his newest fan.
That first line bruv, it’s not even on concrete: my man is filming explosive stair lines on bloody mud. What the fuck? It just gets better from that point onwards too. Leonardo has a style somewhere between Rodrigo TX and Javier Nunes – all mega pop and wild arm steeze – so, so good to watch.
The filming and editing is on point, proper danger fisheye throughout and whoever’s idea it was to set his skating to This Mortal Coil just…bravo. Inspired.
I’m that stoked on this kid that I’m actually considering starting a company just to sponsor him if I’m honest. It’s likely that I’ll write less here than on the other selections but that’s simply because he doesn’t need gassing up. If you watch this yourselves, you’ll agree.
Few other things worthy of note: he’s wearing both Nike and Cons throughout this, which I hope doesn’t mean that he’s still paying for shoes with this amount of skill. I mean I guess he could be on Nike and Cons at the same time, couldn’t he? Maybe there’s a bidding war going on? Either way – Leonardo better be getting paid Mutant Ninja dollar off one of the big box brands, he deserves it.
Watching this gave me the same feeling as watching Alex Carolino’s Lordz part or Shiloh Greathouse in
Trilogy
, which is strong (and justified) praise indeed.
I also loved the way that the opening shot mirrored the last trick too – simple but extremely effective. Finally, as far as I can work out, the video’s title is Leonardo thanking his local skate store MKD – how legit do you want it to get?
Go watch this right now if you haven’t then buy yourself the baggiest jean jhorts you can find. Obrigado Leonardo!
Jante – 10:34
I’d have picked this one based purely on thumbnail. Look at that shit.
Obviously Gerard’s photo makes the spot look sick but you know for a fact that if you went there it’d be absolutely fucking horrible and probably have a dosser covered in his own piss lying in the run out. Regardless of that, Gustav’s just blessing that shit with the warlock man bun, innit? Brown cords, chiselled jaw, Nordic ninja catch, the shadow. I mean – do I even need to press play to have complimentary things to say here?
It’s quite a cerebral video: from the juxtaposition of some of the establishing shots, to the almost classical music, right through to the filming and editing. I think it’s safe to say that the person behind this definitely didn’t spend Year 10 drinking white cider behind the bus station. As we’re on the subject of the filming – my man deserves extra special props here because his use of fish eye in particular is astounding. Filming all those lines from the front so each new spot is a surprise is really exciting. It’s also really dangerous if you’re not super-aware of your surroundings, which this dude obviously is. Bravo.
They blur a filmer out on Josef’s switch fs feeb so I assumed he was a poacher who they were pissed off with, then they used his angle anyway. Is that bullying?
Can anyone tell me why Swedish housing complexes have wooden snake runs in them? Or subways that double as bobsleigh downhills? That one spot with the two down banks reminds me of that subway that everyone used to skate in Philly except the Swedish one probably smells of falafel rather than crack.
That dude Vincent Huhta has some really good footage in here. I’m glad he’s stopped doing that shrug to camera every time he lands something nonchalantly though. I’ve never met the guy and I’m guessing he’s sound but that shrug used to get on my tits. It put the ‘huh’ in Huhta. Joking: well kinda, I’m going to like anything that him and Gustav are in to be honest. If they’re both in the same video then fuck it – it’ll be banging. And it is. I enjoy the way that Vincent simultaneously looks like the most naturally gifted skateboarder you’ve ever seen and also like some guy who just picked up a board on his way home from the pub and has no idea what he’s doing. There’s a purity to it – he reminds me of Ben Jobe a bit. I bet he’s sick on those Melodica things that look like bongs with piano keys on them. He could probably MC a kid’s birthday party no bother.
Gustav Tønnesen comes last. It’s difficult to find adequate superlatives for how good this cunt is: ‘supernatural’ gets as close as I’m able. I hope he’s getting paid loot from adidas because he’s making their shit look well tasty. He probably lives off cashew nuts or something though, like a Buddhist.
To speak seriously for a moment: if you don’t rate Gustav then you’re dead to me. I’ve met him in real life a few times but I’ve never heard him speak. As far as I know he could be mute and only communicate via the medium of undoable skateboard tricks. He’s too hot to be that good – you know what I mean? I’d be scared to introduce him to my wife because I’d be worried that she’d just melt in the presence of his man bun and get pregnant off his breath. I’m not even sure I’d be that upset if it happened.
I read up on what Jante means because as I said, this video felt brainy. Apparently it’s an attitude very specific to Scandinavian countries, which frowns on being a big head or on gassing yourself up as the Don. I’m assuming Pontus must’ve missed that meeting. According to Wikipedia, Jante ‘characterizes as unworthy and inappropriate any behavior that is not conforming, does things out of the ordinary, or is personally ambitious’. If that’s true then everyone on this video is in deep shit. Especially Gustav. Perhaps it’s ironic? Fuck knows. Regardless, watch this you bellends. The filming alone deserves it.
I’m still not down for Lättöl beer though. Bun Systembolaget.
Shoutout to Kev Parrott for the technical assistance, Flo Mirtain for the sexy voiceover and to everyone who released a video with us this year. Oh and obviously to
Quartersnacks
for coming up with the coolest presentation ever for their expert filtering of the interweb’s sk8clips.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  June 1, 2021
The American Dream (part 1 of 6): Mike Manzoori
Illustration by James Jarvis
Much like the first European seafaring explorers crossing the Atlantic centuries before them, skateboarders have been venturing west for quite some time now. For the past few decades the ‘
American Dream
’ was to get to California, skate as hard as you can, get in the US mags, get in the major videos, meet the industry gatekeepers, turn pro and maybe – if the stars aligned – get a signature shoe. This was the formula for success and it stayed like that up until quite recently. To get famous in skateboarding internationally you had to head west, it’s just what you did. But those days are behind us, with the proliferation of successful international brands (think Palace, Polar, Pass~Port, Isle, Sour, etc.) combined with the internet and social media irreversibly changing the way we consume skateboarding content, you can realistically stay put in your own country, city or town (wherever that might be) and still become a household name.
For this article we thought it would be interesting to hear from some of the Euro legends (yeah ‘legend’ is often overused these days, but after reading these guys’ stories we think you’ll agree it’s a deserved title) and what they went through in their times out in Cali climbing the skate career ladder. Some stayed, some left, but the stories of
Mike Manzoori
,
Jesus Fernandez
,
Benny Fairfax,
Geoff Rowley
and Chany Jeanguenin really blew us away… Each of their experiences were vastly different, but combined for this article you begin to see what lengths skaters from the old continent would take (and what they put up with) to try and make it.  -Will Harmon
Mike Manzoori, 1994. Ph. Wig Worland
Interview by Ben Powell
What were the circumstances around your first trip to the USA?
Mike Manzoori: My first trip to California specifically to skate and hit up my sponsors was in 1993. At that time I was riding for Santa Cruz and being a Euro rider it was the done thing to go out to the States and visit your sponsors, skate what seemed to be the better spots at the time and just to get into the mix.
Was that an expectation from Santa Cruz’s point of view?
No, I don’t think so. In that instance I think the expectation came more from the team manager in the UK, which was Shane O’Brien at the time. He was pushing really hard for me to move up the ranks back then. He’d set up this kind of trial program whereby this Dutch guy Dirk Winkleman and myself would get paid a little bit of money from Santa Cruz as amateurs. As I remember it the deal was ‘whoever does the best this year will get a pro board’. It wasn’t something that Dirk or I had asked for or instigated but Shane was just trying to push us to get more recognition I guess. I went out to California for the first time at the end of that year with Shane’s words ringing in my ears, ‘when you get out there, you need to speak to Jeff Kendall and Bob Denike and find out what’s going on with your pro deal’ etc. I was so shy that I left it until the last day of the trip to bring it up and when I did they just looked at me like I was crazy, ha ha. I think they said something along the lines of, ‘we tried that with Claus Grabke and Søren Aaby, nobody from Europe is getting a pro board.’ I felt like such a dumb arse…
Was that trip self-funded?
Yeah I’d saved up for that one myself – it was more of a holiday really as I went out with my girlfriend of the time and we did a bunch of non-skate related things too. Previously I’d been riding for Powell Peralta and I’d left because I felt weird about going on tours with Tony Hawk and Lance Mountain, because I felt as though I didn’t deserve to be there, so I joined Santa Cruz because it had been presented more as a mellow, ‘you’ll just get a few boards with no pressure’ situation. Then the next thing I know I’ve got Shane pushing me to try and chase a pro board, (laughing) – embarrassed myself with that one.
Having said that, because I’d toured with Tony before, I had his number so I called him up during that trip and he said, ‘I have a Honda Civic you can drive, come stay at my house in Fallbrook, skate the ramp, etc.’ Pretty crazy really… I’m out there in the middle of nowhere on my own skating Tony Hawk’s massive vert ramp thinking to myself, ‘whatever you do, don’t slam.’ If I’d hurt myself out there I’d have been dead. It was miles from the nearest hospital and this is long before cell phones. It was terrifying. That was so nice of Tony though, Lance Mountain too – he took me all over the place.
Indy air, Missile Park, San Diego, 1994. Ph. Wig Worland.
By default you ended up chasing the American Dream on that trip then…
I suppose, I was always really hesitant about chasing the pro skater thing because of my personality, but I seemed to always just fall back into it by doing contests and being in the mags. It was great but I honestly never felt like I was super-hungry for the American Dream…
You rode for Powell Peralta during the ‘Euro Brigade’ era with Curtis McCann, Mark Fowlie, etc. – that seemed like an early attempt to make it possible to ‘make it’ without having to go to the States – was that how it seemed to you?
That’s really interesting given the focus of this article I guess. Back then, 1991/92, Powell were really the only brand who were big enough to reach out to European skaters. They were the only brand trying to set something up in Europe: they had a warehouse, they had distribution, they had smart guys like Frank Messman, (OG vert/freestyle ripper) in charge – they had this whole infrastructure set up in Europe years before anyone else had even thought about it. I got on, I quickly suggested that they put
Curtis (McCann)
who was better than all of us on, and then within a year they had a full pan-European team going around doing tours, filming sections for the US Powell videos, etc. Really forward-thinking looking at it now…
Were you being paid at that point?
No, we were only amateurs – Nicky Guerrero was the headline pro of Powell’s Euro division, he had a pro board and a wage. Aside from him and Claus Grabke/Søren Aaby on Santa Cruz – the notion of European-based pro skaters wasn’t really a thing back then.
It was definitely more of a case of you riding for a distributor in your respective country but being told you were on such and such brand, right?
Yeah, it was deliberately vague. But then you had some people like Lucien Hendricks, who was based in the UK in the ‘80s but had a pro board on Dogtown – at the time I thought Lucien was on properly, who knows? Having worked out in the States for so long now though, I’m fully aware that a lot of brands view their international riders in a different way, not all of them, but some of them are viewed a little bit more like, ‘they’re the distributor’s problem, not ours’.
This is why what Powell were trying to do with the Euro Brigade was so progressive for the era…
Absolutely. They clearly were trying to bridge the gap between the USA and everywhere else. At this point in skate culture there was literally a gap: a media gap where we didn’t get to see what the top pros were doing ‘til months later and a time gap in terms of seeing new tricks (mainly in photos at that point) months after everyone in the USA had learned them. This is why the rest of the world looked to America for inspiration and perhaps appeared to be copying it because there was this lag in the newest stuff reaching the rest of the world.
Right now you can turn on the tap and be bombarded by a flood of skate content whereas back then it was just a drip from the American tap, which would let out little morsels of information every so often. In order for us to catch up, we had to go to the other end of the tap, to the source where the flow was coming from and that meant going to the States.
Had the older generation of London skaters (Bod Boyle, Steve Douglas, etc.) laid out the importance of going to the States to your generation?
Yeah, the message was clear. There was a visible difference between those British skaters who had been out to the States and those who hadn’t. Not just in their treatment by their sponsors but physically in their skating too.
For example when Sean Goff came back from the States after skating Upland, it was obvious to everyone how much his skating had improved – to the point where he was the only UK guy tossing McTwists. It just seemed as though the guys who had been out there were better at skating than those who hadn’t because to be honest, they were. Bod and Steve Douglas were just ahead of me in terms of generations and their experience had laid it out like, ‘if you go out to California, connect with a good sponsor and go for it then things will happen.’ And it did for both of them. That just wasn’t happening for skaters still living in Europe at that point.
I suppose even things like the cost of air travel back then made it almost impossible for brands to include European riders.
Absolutely, the costs involved in global tours back then were ridiculous. I remember dudes would come from America to Europe on tour with duffel bags full of product and that was how they’d pay for their time over here. Stickers were like currency – I remember US pros paying for food, accommodation and travel just by selling stickers, ha ha.
Did that first trip alter your perception of the possibilities for you as a sponsored skater?
Definitely, it made me realise that the opportunities were there but that you needed to be in California to take advantage of them: in the early ‘90s at least. Weirdly, for me personally, I moved out here just as things were beginning to change to a point where Europe was starting to be the place where things were happening. The majority of the industry was still based in California but Europe was where the best skating was happening – whether that was from American skaters travelling there, or from the domestic skate scenes. Everything that I’d come to America for was now available in Europe ten years down the line.
You also moved out around the same time as the
Flip team
too, right?
Yes, they were doing the same thing as I was at the same point. We all got swept up in the wave of moving out to California to skate, Carl Shipman, Curtis McCann – lots of people. That was an interesting phenomenon of that period in that skaters would go to California and then a few months later when you saw them again they would have progressed so much – like a year or two ahead of the people who hadn’t left. We just didn’t have access to what was going on over there like we have now, so the only way to tap into it was to go and be surrounded by the people who were literally inventing the future of skateboarding.
The main difference with the Flip guys was that they moved out to California and showed the Americans what was up. That had never happened previously. Before the Flip exodus, Californian skating had never been influenced by outside factors; the Flip guys absolutely changed the game in that respect. Two years before, all the US pros would come to Radlands and be somewhat curious about this weird skinny kid in huge clothes landing every flip trick. At that point they were kind of dissing Tom (Penny) really. Then a year later they’re back in Northampton praising Tom, then another year later he’s out in California showing them how to skate their spots, ha ha. From ‘we don’t understand this kid’ to ‘this is the future’ – that had never happened before that point.
All of the Flip guys had that impact, which was amazing for all British skaters back then, like ‘Fuck yeah! These are our mates!’
Boardslide, Orange County, 1999. Ph. Wig Worland
You lived between the US and the UK for quite a few years right?
I started going out to California more frequently from ‘93 onwards. Each time I’d end up staying for longer until ultimately it became clear that I needed to be there full-time. I was in a slightly different situation to a lot of people insofar as when I was riding for ATM (after Santa Cruz), I ended up working on the brand as well as just being a rider. I got on just after Mark Gonzales, Ron Chatman and the entire original team had quit and there was basically nobody doing anything. ATM wanted me out in the States to meet this entirely new team that I’d just joined (Kip Sumpter, Mario Rubalcaba and Jeff King). I got out there and their sister brand New School was working on a video but they had nobody who knew what they were doing. I mentioned that I knew how to switch a Mac on (laughs) and before I knew it, my role at ATM had gone from new rider to brand manager. Straight away I was laying the ads out, making the videos etc., etc. So there was another layer to moving to the USA for me personally, beyond just going out to try and forge a pro career. That has been a recurring theme throughout my life really; I’ve always ended up in a similar position at all of the brands I’ve been involved with.
And there’s no way these kinds of opportunities would have fallen into your lap if you were still living in the UK, right?
None of it would’ve happened if I hadn’t made the effort to get out to California and meet people.
You filmed at least one full-length part in the UK during that time (
Hating Life
) and had a load of UK mag coverage before you moved to the States for good.
The
Hating Life
part was filmed whilst I was back in the UK between visas. By that point I’d been out in America for a good few years but still on temporary visas so I’d still be back and forth. I got involved in the
Hating Life
video
because A4 (the UK distributor for Sole Tech) were working on it and I just so happened to be back living in London with Sharon at that point. I was lucky enough to get a lot of magazine coverage throughout that period too, mainly because I was friends with everyone at
Sidewalk
and
Document
. I’d regularly send packages of British magazines and video coverage out to my sponsors in the States back then.
Was it considered to have value?
Yeah, increasingly it was. A decade or so earlier maybe not but by the late ‘90s, US brands had really begun to see value in the idea of regional riders and domestic coverage for their brands through those skaters. Previously, although brands might’ve liked to see their Euro riders get coverage in European mags, they still expected people to go out to the US and do it all again for
Thrasher
or
TWS
if those people were going to progress as pros.
When did you ultimately move out to the USA on a permanent basis?
Around 1998, that was when I started getting longer-term visas and when I’d got the job at Sole Tech. That was always part of my experience – being a sponsored skater and working for the brands I rode for – so I guess that was my version of the American Dream. My visa applications always included both aspects of what I did but they definitely changed in emphasis from ‘pro athlete’ to ‘filmmaker/artist’ over that time. It was always an O1 visa though, that’s a visa where there are no academic requirements for acceptance and it’s based around you having excelled in a specific field of your own – be that skateboarding, music, art or whatever. Because of that, my visas were always really reliant on the coverage that I’d built up over the years in UK mags and on the letters that people such as yourself and Percy (Dean) wrote for me. So in that respect, the domestic coverage was absolutely central to me making the move out to live in the States permanently.
From what I recall you had a pretty horrific experience sorting out your US residency – am I remembering that correctly?
Yeah, that’s right. I only just got my full citizenship last year. I almost fucking broke down crying when it came through: it felt like this huge twenty-year weight had finally been lifted off me. Being born in Iran definitely made that whole process so much more difficult than it could’ve been for me, especially because everything geopolitically got so much worse between the USA and Iran post-9/11. It’s been a weird slow motion trauma. I’ve felt as though my life has been in somebody else’s hands for so long, it’s been really punishing at times – just the constant uncertainty that you end up living under. I’m definitely thankful that it’s over, finally.
Frontside air over the hip, Blockhead ramp, Bonsall, Californa. 1994. Ph. Pete Thompson
Do you think the opportunities you’ve had would’ve come about had you stayed in Europe?
Possibly, but I would’ve had much less structure and support and the onus would have been on me to do everything myself: being in America definitely expedited the process. Since I moved it’s become much more possible to stay in Europe and start amazing brands and have global success without needing to be in California. I guess I was born slightly too early, ha ha.
Looking back on it now – would you change anything?
No, what’s the point of that? I can’t believe the opportunities that the journey has given me. I was looking at my Check Out in
R.a.D
recently, from when I was 15 or so and the last question asked what I wanted to do in the future. My answer was, ‘I want to skate every ramp there is!’: I feel as though I’ve had a pretty good crack at that to be honest, ha ha. If we’re judging success on fulfilling teenage dreams then I haven’t done too badly.

================================================================================

BY James Davis  •  May 24, 2018
Opinion: Street League is not Free
Street League is not Free
By James Davis
It’s hard to say what stinks most about Street League. Above all there’s a sense that the freedoms we know and love about skateboarding have been traded for something different, something shackled and rotten. As the SLS caravan arrives in London we get a foretaste of how Olympic ideals translate into commercial deals, principles become profits and cultural capital is used to hoodwink the powerful and fleece the public of the thing they made and cherish the most.
Street League is not free, as in beer.
It comes with a heavy cost. The Olympic Park is run by the London Legacy Development Corporation – a Government quango set up to make this public space run like a private one. Their Chief Executive Lyn Garner wants to ensure “local people have access” to skateboarding in the official SLS press release.
It turns out well over a third of those local people – from Hackney, Tower Hamlets and Newham – actually live below the poverty line. They can’t afford rent or to eat healthily.
Yet all-day prices for the SLS Pro Open London on Sunday total £84, more than twice that of Barcelona SLS last May (which unlike London had a free practice day). In fact these skateboarding tickets are more expensive than any comparable seat at any forthcoming event at the Copperbox Arena including e-sports, netball and basketball. What kind of access for local people is this when a day ticket to watch skateboarding costs more than a week’s Job Seeker’s Allowance to live on?
Street League is not free, as in speech.
Street League’s official partners are a rogue’s gallery of corporations largely ill-suited to have any credible say in skateboarding. Yet their dollars buy influence.
Monster Energy – a corporation profiting off drinks so toxic the
NHS warn
against consumption and you have to be aged 16 to purchase – is I’m sure delighted to associate themselves with one of the last-remaining credible youth cultures. Particularly when their own
work culture
appears so misogynistic they currently face at least six lawsuits for sexual discrimination and other issues. Sponsoring skate events makes Monster look good amongst their target market and last year helped generate $3.4 billion in sales. It’s Ferraris for dentists all round. By the way, how many skateparks have they built with that money?
What are you carrying?
Not actually a greeting from one London gang member to another, #whatareyoucarrying is the official hashtag of one of Street League’s partners,
Kershaw Knives
. Odd you might think,
marketing knives
to teenagers. Odder still, marketing knives to teenagers in London during a
knife crime epidemic
. Oddest of all? Quietly removing the name of Kershaw Knives from the
SLS partners webpage
just before the London event. Really? Claiming it was only included in error (it’s been
there
well over a year), while Kershaw still hold
sponsorship
rights? Priceless.
We can only assume Mayor Khan would love to meet Kershaw’s marketing executives to discover how they can help make knives look more cool, I mean support his desperate attempts to tackle knife crime. #WhatAreyouCarrying they ask. “To be crystal-clear it is not acceptable to carry a weapon.” he replies…
The cumulative effect of having these and other sponsors is that SLS are obliged to keep these companies happy. Sponsors have power over organisations by default, and when such people have even a small say in how skateboarding is presented to the world, it’s time to do something about it.
The highly controlled list of skateboarders, the supporting media, peripheral contractors, Skateboard England, the LLDC, the Mayor’s office, are all implicated. They all condone this bizarre corporate representation of skateboarding, their hypocrisy is gutless, their lack of political stance not just cowardice, their silence is violence against the freedoms we hold dear.
The violence is physical too.
Wickside was a cherished DIY spot that emerged right next to the Copperbox Arena in the last couple of years, taking off as nearby
Frontside Gardens Skatepark
was demolished by developers. The abandoned space at Wickside saw concrete ramps and blocks take shape, attracting local skateboarders and providing an ad hoc community hub at the weekends. A dysfunctional, empty space was turning into a cared-for environment with numerous positive effects.
In December 2017 contractors instructed by the LLDC bulldozed the skate spot without notice or discussion. No doubt while in advanced negotiations with SLS about this very competition. The rubble was swept away and security guards stepped up their monitoring.
Congrats to the hypocritical Olympic authorities @queenelizabetholympicpark for wilful destruction of a community-led skate spot. You miserly bulldozing no doubt cost 10X what it cost to build this grass roots facility serving local youth. Your profit-driven real estate objectives are poorly masked by the veneer of pretending to serve locals via the Clarnico Quay project, a sham disguised as an opportunity made only to divert attention from the imminent property development. Finally, ban skateboarding and then stick snowboarding on your social feed. Oof. Hope you can sleep well. RIP #wickside #olympics #olympicskateboarding #queenelizabetholympicpark #queenelizabethpark #banskateboarding #hackneywick #makeshift
A post shared by @
littlewednesday
on
Dec 23, 2017 at 7:51am PST
SLS founder Rob Dyrdek’s treason is to try and make all of this seem acceptable. To make you pay for your own silence with flashing scoreboards and slow motion replays, with podium girls and buckets of energy drink. To feign emotion for entertainment. To pay your heroes so much cash that in their short and volatile careers they are left with little option but to take the money and run. To take enough cash from you that he can do the same, while gaining power en route to Tokyo 2020 where a skateboarding we barely recognise will be presented to 4 billion viewers.
Meanwhile local people cannot afford to attend this event, local skateboarders have their much-loved spot destroyed, the mayor is deceived and a monstrous caravan of corporate greed descends on once-public land to rob a generation’s pocket money while rotting their teeth and stabbing them in the back.
So, Street League is neither gratis or libre. These two concepts of freedom (exemplified by beer that costs nothing and speech without restriction) underpin the core of skateboarding’s playful and innovative culture. Instead, Street League betrays us, at our own cost, for a toxic regimen.
What can you do?
You can skate, that’s what. Skate how and where you want. Reject SLS, the Olympic park is full of spots. Let’s take this hollow welcome from the LLDC and practice our Olympic sport on Olympic facilities. Let’s reclaim
Wickside
. Take a look at this map to see some of the many other local spots you can skate this weekend and beyond.
All of them are free. As in beer, and as in speech.
Let’s fight to keep skateboarding that way.

================================================================================

BY Will  •  November 17, 2015
Here come the Bombaklats!
The Bombaklats crew
Unless you’ve been living under a rock the past few years you’ve surely heard of the Bombaklats crew. Well if you somehow don’t know, the Bombaklats are a tight-knit crew of skaters from Holland who are wrecking shop in Western Europe. Now this is not the definitive Bombaklats article, not all the crew is represented in these photos, it’s just a small sampling of what our friend Davy Van Laere shot when he accompanied the guys on a short trip up through northern Holland. Bram De Cleen talked to the Bomba’s filmers Sami El Hassani (aka Sami) and Jan Maarten Sneep (aka Sneep) to get a little more info about the crew and what they’ve been up to.
All photos by Davy Van Laere
Interview by Bram De Cleen
Bram: Who started Bombaklats? When?
Sami: When I was about 16 years old, I was already filming my homies that I skated with back then, together with one of my friends who filmed as well. It was just with a handycam and after a while, when I had figured out that I really enjoyed filming, I considered buying a VX 1000, which obviously is the best skate camera of all time. My friend that was filming as well wanted a VX1 just like me. So in the summertime I got a job at the same company where my mother worked and saved up 1000 euros in about seven weeks. At that time I found an offer for two VX1000’s on the web, which was perfect for my friend and I. I told him that I found a good deal and he was down for one of them. He didn’t have enough money so my mom let him borrow the rest for his share. We were hyped but after he paid back the money to my mom he told me that he wanted to make a video by himself without me. I felt betrayed and that’s where the friendship ended. Now I was on my own and started filming a lot with my other homies. As I improved my filming skills, I got in touch with the better and sponsored skaters like Sebastiaan Vijverberg, Nassim Guammaz and Tim Zom. My friends where skating less and started to do graffiti, they lost interest for filming video parts. So, I planned to make a video with Tim Zom, Nassim Guammaz, Sebastiaan Vijverberg, Rob Maatman, Robbin Oost and a few others. In that period Sneep had just moved in to town. He had already made a skate video with his crew and was working on a new project. So we were both working on our own projects.
Tim Zom, nosegrind in Leylstad, Holland.
Sneep: I remember when Sami first got his VX, I felt like I had to keep up with those kids. We gradually started skating and filming more together and our crews fused into what became Bombaklats.
Sami: Sebastiaan Vijverberg actually came up with the idea to do one video with all of us together.
Remco Stolze, frontside rock in Groningen, Holland.
What does the name mean? Who came up with it?
Sami: Alexander Belhadji started saying “Bombaklats!” a lot when he was hyped on a trick or something. The whole crew kind of picked it up and as we didn’t have a name for the video we just called it that.
Who does the filming and editing?
Sami: Sneep and I do both – 50-50.
Tim Zom, ollie in Groningen, Holland.
I really liked the graphics, are they a joint effort as well?
Sneep: Creating those animations was more my cup of tea, but we’d still do lots of those together. We used to set up animation nights, where we’d write “bombaklats” over and over with big markers. That’s also where our logo came from, it was just one of those writings.
Sami: At the time Sneep was working on his graduating piece for the Art Academy, and was really into Rotoscope, an animation style. He was really good at it and came up with the idea to use it in the video. I was hyped on that idea and I think it worked really well! He made almost all of them, except for one I did, which ended up first in the video, haha.
You both feel that the animations and graphics work better with SD footage but you’re filming in HD now, does that mean you’re going to stop doing them?
Sami: We’re going to figure out something new that gives it that raw look, but also works with the HD format. This month we’re going to experiment a lot. So no, we’re not going to stop but we still have to start.
Robbin De Wit. nollie crooks in Leylstad, Holland.
How did the first Bombaklats video end up on the Berrics?
Sneep: We did a premiere in Rotterdam, and an online release a little later. After everything was up on YouTube, I started sending e-mails to all websites that could be interested in posting it. Not much happened, but after about a month I got a reply from the Berrics. They were hyped, I guess! We took it down from YouTube for a while so they could exclusively push it worldwide, one part a day!
When can we expect the next project?
Sneep: We’re working on it. We’ve filmed for about two years now. No date yet though, but the guys did well.
Sami: We’re going to start with the edit now, which is a long process, as many people know. I hope we can still drop it this year.
Who will be the main guys featured?
Sami: Nassim Guammaz, Sebastiaan Vijverberg, Tim Zom, Robbin de Wit, Remco Stolze, Rob Maatman, Daan van der Linden and a lot of others! Actually, the crew that was in the previous movie and some underdogs that nobody knows.
Sneep: We’re also involved in Shajen Willems’ new video part, together with Zev van Sluysdam and Geoffrey van Hove who filmed some clips as well. It’s going to be insane!!
Sebastiaan Vijverberg, wallie to 50-50 in Groningen.
Sneep, you’re doing the Sneep Memory Screen features on the website as well, what’s the inspiration behind that?
Sneep:
Memory Screen
is my skate nerd project. For about two years I’ve been re-watching every older video I could get my hands on. I wrote down all the tricks that really stood out for me, back when I watched it then, and when I watched them again, now. My original plan was to turn these notes into short Instagram clips. Two years later there were already a handful of people doing this nostalgic skateboarding theme (
@koolmoeleo
– my fav). Now I’m basically editing all my favourite footage from my favourite skaters to some music that in some way relates to the skater. The list is long, but here’s a glimpse: Mike Carroll, Josh Kalis, Tim O’ Connor, Karl Watson,
Rob Welsh
, Brian Wenning, Danny Renaud, AVE, and many more to come.
Tim Zom
I look forward to seeing all of them! So you guys are involved in the
POP Trading Company
clips as well, right? You guys seem pretty busy behind the camera and computer and are doing a really good job. Are you starting to make a living out of filming and editing?
Sami: Yeah true, when I first heard of POP and what they were doing I thought it would be just a regular distribution. When I heard that they were doing Palace I told Peter Kolks that he should hook up Alexander Belhadji, because I thought he would fit the brand perfect. Then Ali told me there was a meeting with them and I just went there with him! I met all the boys, well a lot of them I already knew, Peter and Ric (The Main guys behind POP) showed their plans for the team, which I thought were pretty dope! And we took it from there… They started organising team days and they asked me to film it since I new about their plans so then I started to film more with them. And now it feels like a second crew.
I can say that I do what I really want to do without doing other shitty jobs. I feel very fortunate for this and I’m really thankful to all the people that pushed and supported me over the years.
Sneep: Yeah every once in a while Peter Kolks asks us to come film for the POP clips or another project with his riders. It’s been really fun filming with people you don’t really know so well, because they’re able to surprise you. I’ve also been on a couple of Vans Benelux trips, mostly to film with
Daan van der Linden
. We started filming him to get his name out there, but I guess now he’s already done that for himself. But we still have the footage, so now he’s having a part in our video. So sick! If Daan isn’t your favourite skater right now, better look him up! I feel really lucky to be able to do what I love most.
Rob Maatman, backside kickflip in Alkmaar, Holland.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  February 19, 2025
red white and blue
Video by Jacob Palumbo and Will Miles.
Photography by James Griffiths.
The great American road trip; it’s what so many films and novels are based upon. Whether it’s Jack Kerouac’s
On the Road
,
Easy Rider
,
Thelma and Louise
, or
National Lampoon’s Vacation
, there’s a wide spectrum of stories romanticising the long drive across the United States of America. So when Griff hit us up on November 1st about
a cross-country road trip he was about to take with Dylan Jaeb, Eetu, Will Miles and others, of course we were intrigued. What shenanigans would these lot get up to? What tales would they tell? Well the boys were quite tight-lipped about it all to be honest… Maybe they still have highway hypnosis? Perhaps you can piece together somewhat of an idea of their journey by gazing at Griff’s photos and reading the Google reviews from their many pit stops along the way.
– Will Harmon
Dylan Jaeb, frontside 180 kickflip, Salt Lake City, Utah
Sunset Station Hotel and Casino
1301 W Sunset Rd, Henderson, NV 89014, United States
Will Miles
4 reviews · 1 photo
⭐️
Hotel and casino looked insane but if you book your room from the wrong night they weirdly won’t let you check in. Even if you’ve just driven 7 hours from San Diego and arrive at 2am.
Eetu Toropainen, boardslide gap-out, Gary, Indiana
Excalibur Hotel and Casino
3850 S Las Vegas Blvd, Las Vegas, NV 89109, United States
Will Miles
4 reviews · 1 photo
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Great hotel if you turn up at 4am and need a room. Terrible hotel if you think you’re walking away with any of your $200 from the roulette table when you wake up.
Vincent Huhta, 50-50 gap into the bank, Gary, Indiana
Penny’s Diner
1170 W Flaming Gorge Way, Green River, WY 82935, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Very yummerz in my tummerz indeed, staff were very lovely, almost lovely enough for us to stop our cross country road trip and pull up to Green River as permanent residents.
P.S. Tots slapped so hard I had to stash a few for later, see
video
for reference.
Cyprus Blanco, backside smith grind, Denver, Colorado
Himalayan Kitchen
360 State St, Salt Lake City, UT 84111, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
As an Englishman whose national dish is curry I’m naturally slightly suspicious of any curry house outside of Brick Lane. Himalayan Kitchen has taught me that good curry does exist elsewhere. My only criticism is to the waitresses who warned me that their hot curry is extremely hot, which really gave my masochistic self the horn, I was slightly disappointed by the underwhelming level of spice.
P.S. Bison mono slapped.
Eetu Toropainen, ollie into the 2nd bank, Richmond, Virginia
Salt Lake Roasting Co
820 E 400 S, Salt Lake City, UT 84102, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
On the morning of November 8th I was enjoying a delicious acai bowl and finely roasted house blend Americano as I was left speechless by a beautiful brunette who entered Salt Lake Roasting Co around 8.35am.
We locked eyes a few times as I dreamed of our lives together living in the mountains with 2/3 dogs in a lovely wooden cabin. Beautiful brunette if you are reading this please get in touch.
See selfie for future husband
.
Cyprus Blanco, frontside bluntslide, Gary, Indiana
Silo
517 S 13th St, Omaha, NE 68102, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Lovely lil shop with great curated selections of the finest garms. Also staff were super helpful with pointing us in the direction of skate spots and also helping hook us up with a new board when it mysteriously disappeared after skating a spot with a v cracked out homie trying to get involved.
Dylan Jaeb, switch 360 flip, Richmond, Virginia
Black River Fingerboard Shop
1136 N Milwaukee Ave, Chicago, IL 60642, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Stopped off here halfway through our Coast to Coast road trip as my friend Jacob would not shut up about it being the only places he cares about stopping off along the way. The staff were super friendly and welcoming and actually went above and beyond when they recognised some of my friends and proceeded to hand out some freebie boards to everyone. At the time this was just a lovely gesture from the owner, little did I know how bloody addictive these things were. Every single moment there was a flat surface for the next week of our trip we were then plagued by the erratic scratching and tapping of these little devils.
Thanks for the free boards and thanks for ruining the next week of my life.
Vincent Huhta, backside lipslide, Denver, Colorado
Grasshopper Club South Loop Chicago Dispensary
58 E Roosevelt Rd, Chicago, IL 60605, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️
Badddd Zaaaa, the kids were upset it was overpriced and underperformed.
Eetu Toropainen, slappy crooked grind, Richmond, Virginia
Uprise
1820 N Milwaukee Ave, Chicago, IL 60647, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Super dope helpful staff, they really helped me out with a new set up after we left mine in a hotel parking lot in Denver.
Dylan Jaeb, backside tailslide gap-out, Omaha, Nebraska
Milton’s Prospect Hill Tavern
301 Milton St, Cincinnati, OH 45202, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Lush divey feel with a good pool table and shuffleboard. Wandering in randomly one night the Bengals were playing and the whole place was a roar with locals. As a couple of out-of- towners this was a little intimidating, however the locals quickly took a liking to us and made us feel right at home. Apart from the incident with
the man who just got out of jail three days ago and the locals having to barricade the door to keep him out it was the highlight of Cincinnati.
P.S. I’ll always remember the calming words a local whispered in my ear when things were getting a bit tense: “Don’t worry, he’s probably not armed.”
Eetu Toropainen, frontside crooked grind to fakie, Chicago, Illinois
Exxon
Oakey L, 139 Okey L Patteson Rd, Scarbro, WV 25917, United States
jammes griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️
Stopped off here very late at night for an emergency fuel stop, quite spooky vibes in the middle of the forest and the staff added to it with a deathly stare, mute response and “freedom isn’t free” hat.
Giving Deliverance vibes.
Cyprus Blanco, gap to backside 5-0, Salt Lake City, Utah
Super Seven Heaven
1621 Williamsburg Rd, Richmond, VA 23231, United States
Will Miles
4 reviews · 1 photo
⭐️⭐️⭐️
Guys serving were kinda pushy to get us out of the door and it smelt a bit weird. Had Pepto tablets to help out in case you’ve been eating gas station food for 18 days and your stomach hurts constantly.
Dylan Jaeb, switch heelflip, Richmond, Virginia
Blanchard’s Coffee Roasting Co.
1903 Westwood Ave, Richmond, VA 23227, United States
james griffiths
Local Guide·30 reviews·18 photos
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Everyone goes on about the coffee here and tbh it’s kinda mid. What kept bringing me back every morning was the staff. Easiest place to fall in love, they are all bloody beautiful.
Cyprus Blanco, frontside boardslide, Denver, Colorado

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 7, 2015
From the first issue: Four days at home with Magenta
Vivien Feil, frontside nosegrind 180. All photos are by Sem Rubio.
My plan was to travel to Bordeaux to link up with the Magenta guys and get a feel for what daily life was like in their hometown. Bordeaux is home to the Magenta headquarters as well as Vivien Feil and Glen Fox. Unfortunately when I visited last October, I had missed Leo (Valls) as he’d flown off to Japan just days before. But luckily Soy Panday was down from Paris for a visit that week. I got to stay at the Magenta HQ and soon realised that the Magenta clique was much larger than just the names you see on the Magenta pro boards. Magenta is really rollin’ deep in Bordeaux! For various reasons this article got shelved for a bit, but luckily it’s now finally seeing the light of day. So although the photos shot by Sem Rubio are from four days last October I talked with Vivien recently to see what had been going on with him and Magenta in the past six months. -Will Harmon
Will: So what’s new and what has been going on with Magenta since I was last there in Bordeaux in October?
Vivien Feil: Well a lot has happened actually. A big one was that Soy (Panday) got Cancer. When we found out this, we had to slow down a bit to deal with that and adapt. The good things is now he’s cured and he’s finally better. Now Soy has moved down to Bordeaux to help get things back on track and get some support. Also Tavu (Olivier Ente) has relocated here from Lille. He’s been helping us out. So many people come by here and visit to skate. We recently had Nikola (Racan) come from Croatia plus loads of other friends from Japan… Just so many people stop through Bordeaux.
And when I was there in October your girlfriend was pregnant…
Yes I had a second kid since you were here last! I’m really busy now, but it’s all good.
Masaki Ui, wallride nollie out
.
How did your 5-year anniversary exhibition and pop-up shop go in Paris last week?
Yeah it was awesome. We were right next to République so we could skate all day, hangout and drink beer. We had an art show with Jean’s (Feil) photos, Benjamin’s (Derberdt) photos, Soy’s art, Tavu’s art and some other friends. Richard (Hart) had a photo. It was really cool; loads of people showed up. We blocked the street! The opening night the neighbours were not happy, which is always a good sign! (Laughs)
So was there a lot of the Magenta crew there in attendance?
Lui Araki, who we support, came from Japan. We had friends come from all over, but not the whole team. Jimmy (Lannon) is hurt right now. He’s hurt his hip. Ben (Gore) was a little tight with money. So we mostly kept it French.
Gaetan (Salvignol), your sales guy, kills it at skating as can be seen in this article. I remember before you talking about so many people being part of the Magenta family even though they aren’t a Magenta Pro or official Am or whatever. Can you talk more about the Magenta family and what that means?
Yeah well basically we hook up all our friends pretty much who are not hooked up by somebody else. There is a bunch of people, not only in France, but all over that we support. Liu Araki is one of them. He’s an older skater from Tokyo. He’s amazing. We hook up Masaki Ui here in Bordeaux. Also Yoan (Taillandier) also gets stuff… All the friends we skate with you know. If you are skating with these guys all the time, you know you don’t really want them to have to go to a shop to buy a full-price board.
Gaetan Savignol, frontside 50-50.
So essentially you are building this big community of Magenta followers…
Yeah sure, it’s just to get people psyched. We like to hook up dudes that share a similar common view about skating rather than just a few select dudes. I think with skateboarding, if you don’t have the community around it then you are going to quit eventually. So many people move to places just because there is a better skate community there. I think it is super-important to stay stoked. I mean human beings do that – they tend to try and have a community of supportive and like-minded individuals around them. I mean if you are a brand and it’s going well then you can hook up all the friends. Why not!
When I was there last Glen (Fox) was working on his welcome part. Now that it’s out, the question everyone asks is: Was any of Glen’s footage sped up in that part?
Well that’s the thing… No. That’s a
big myth. The style of filming created the myth that things were sped up. But if the point of your filming is to convey the energy of skating and stuff like that well then it means that if you film it really good it might look sped up, especially with the VX1000. So the answer is no, it wasn’t sped up. When people see him skate in person they’ll lose their minds!
Glenn Fox, ollie over to backside powerslide.
How important is the relationship with the filmer for the brand’s video projects?
It’s very important. The filmer has the way to carry the message and he also holds the key to how the images are going to look. He’s an artist. You know if you look at Yoan he’s not on a schedule for anything because he’s an artist. He does whatever he wants to do. He’s going to bring an eye to it; he’s conscious when he films. He’s not there going: “Oh this will work like that… This is fine.” No, he’s thinking how he can he get the best. He thinks about the little things. So he helps us. We can see that he has this energy when he films and that in turn gives us energy. It helps us focus. (Editor’s note: Soy Panday once said that: “Yoan is performing a trick with his filming. Every movement is thought out and Yoan is thinking about everything in that particular image, not just the trick.”)
It’s the same when shooting with a good photographer like Sam (Ashley) or Jean (Feil). Any good photographer is trying to find the way that things align and they are very conscious. And when you work with these people you have to be conscious of what you are doing.
So how’s Glen doing?
He’s doing well. He was in Paris, now he’s back with his girlfriend in Bordeaux. He’s been killing it: painting, skating and living the good life.
And when I was in Bordeaux last Leo (Valls) was in Japan. Is he back in Bordeaux now?
Yeah Leo was over there for months. Also Ben (Gore) went over there with Glen and Aymeric (Nocus). I think they had a great time. They were filming for Zach Chamberlin’s new video Sprinkles.
Vivien Feil, ollie into the bank.
Oh Zach has a new video coming out?
Yeah Sprinkles is coming out soon, sometime this year.
So is Leo living back in Bordeaux or San Francisco?
He is in Bordeaux now, but I think he is moving back to SF at the end of the year. He’s always travelling around.
Ok Vivien in another interview I’ve read with you, you refer to “our skateboarding.” Did you mean the Magenta way of skateboarding? And if so, can you explain what that is?
Our way or skateboarding… Basically from what I see would be to just follow what you love about skateboarding. Try to think about what first brought you to skateboarding. And try to stay away from the general trends… Try not to follow the trends like about what you are wearing or whatever because that really doesn’t matter. Try to understand why skateboarding is special to you and why you still are partaking in it after all these years. Think about your feelings and your emotions you had from the start and then try to work on your skateboarding based on this information – not from what it has become from everybody else. What did you see in skateboarding as a child, teenager, or young adult that made you change the course of your life? Usually your first instinct is the best.
When I say “our skateboarding” I’m not thinking about a powerslide or a no-comply it’s just the general idea that… You know I am doing a lot of powerslides now because it’s a new thing; it’s exciting.
Well Bordeaux has a lot of marble floors that are great for powersliding!
Yes and I mean who cares who came up with it; it’s just skateboarding
you know. It’s whatever you want to do with it.
Also we are involved with the industry too and we’ve met great people within it and some not-so-great people too but that’s how it is. But we could tell we would not be skating long if we had to follow that mould. We wanted to create a mould that allows anybody to skateboard and really feel what it’s about. You don’t have to put yourself through the mental torture of learning everything by the book to enjoy what skateboarding has to bring. “Our skateboarding” would be a way to experience skateboarding in a way that you could skate forever. You don’t ever have to prove anything to anyone except yourself.
Heavy! But well said. So what do you have planned next for Magenta?
We got a lot of secret plans. Ha! (Laughs) No, but I don’t like talking about this stuff as it kills the vibe you know! We are going to take some trips though. We are thinking of heading back to the UK. We were just in Italy with the Chef Family. That video should be out in September. Soy and myself are also going to Switzerland… We are going to try and do a lot of small trips. I just want to try and skate a lot and not do too much office work.
Masaki Ui, 50-50 to crooked grind.
I feel ya. Gotta get out and onto the board!
Yeah I think after five years you look back and you are happy with your success, but then again you realise you’ve been spending an awful lot of time in an office. So this summer I’m
going to try and skate a lot.
So five years of Magenta already! Wow, what do you think about it when you look back?
Well it’s been a big learning process. Starting a brand all on our own isn’t easy. There is a lot of paperwork and you make mistakes, but you learn from it all. I think after five years you just want to go back to the way you were when we started. We just want to focus on the things we have fun with and try to skate a lot. You know we want to do what we are hyped on: make more videos, skate a lot and make some cool products.
Gaetan Savignol, 50-50 wallie out.

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  December 27, 2022
Tania Cruz – From The Inside Out
It’s a small world and, in our case, skateboarding is the common denominator where we all cross paths. Tania Cruz arrived in Spain back in 2019, leaving behind her homeland of La Rioja (Argentina) and everything that life and skateboarding had to offer there.
It’s been three years and, since then, she literally hasn’t stopped skating. She’s got an uncommon disposition and determination: you might see her skate the crustiest spot she can find and slam in every way possible, always fast, confident and with a smile on her face. She’s fun, she has a sweet tooth and she’s a good friend to many. If it rains and she can’t skate, then her best plan might just be to look for lesser-known spots around town or stay at home eating chocolate pancakes.
It’s 8pm on a Tuesday. As we said before, the world is very small, and here we are: Raisa (Pontevedra, Spain), Scarlett (Concepción, Chile), and the main character of our story today, Tania (La Rioja, Argentina). Cookies, doughnuts and croissants, what better way to start this interview?
Interview by Raisa Abal and Scarlett Figueroa.
Photography by Gerard Riera.
Hey Tania! Tell us, what do you do when you’re not skating?
I’m a plant lady! I’ve been learning a lot about plants and planting a lot… Otherwise, it depends. I’ve been trying out new things, for example, I bought myself a sewing machine, though that’s not really my thing, ha ha. I’m also going to drumming classes!
I’ve also started studying English in my free time a year ago, so I was really enjoying staying at home, chilling, studying and drinking maté. Now that I’m a bit better at it (nothing special though, but at least I can chat with guys ha ha ha), I started learning Italian too.
Any special reason for that? Would you like to visit Italy?
Yes, it would be cool to learn about its language and culture! I would love to go there for a couple of months or something like that. Although I’m sure that after a month I’ll want to come back home and be alone. I love being alone.
Tell us why, do you feel like your solitude is precious?
Yes, in fact, it’s one of the most valuable things for me.
When I’m not skating, I’m really into making plans just with myself! I really enjoy doing stuff around the house by myself: watching documentaries, and movies, cooking, taking care of my plants, playing the drums… All of it, alone.
Frontside hurricane, Pineda.
It’s not like you want to be alone all of the time, but rather like, your loneliness means a lot to you.
Yeah. I think that skateboarding is a lot about socialising all the time, being surrounded by a lot of stimuli all the time: friends, new people, skateparks… You’re always surrounded by others. I love to skate all day every day, so, when I’m not skating, I need to reconnect with myself. Oh wait! I know what I like to do when I’m not skating: I like PLANNING. I plan out and have lists for everything: what I’m doing that day, that week, my list for three months from now, my list for one year from now, getting my visa issued, organising everything… When you get it done, you feel like oufh, inner peace.
Since it’s so important for you to plan out everything, do you think that, through that organisation, you can control the future? Do you feel capable of everything if you plan it out in advance?
Totally. If I look at my lists from the past, everything I had written in there is done. Every time I reach a goal, I set myself up for a new one. For me, having goals and dreams to chase is what keeps me going. The fun part is that, the closer you get to the finish line, unexpected doors start opening, like in a game. The first time you say it out loud, it sounds like something really difficult and distant, but if you divide the path in front of you into smaller steps and every day you do a little bit, every day you keep going forward and getting closer. It’s as if you were eating a really big cake that you can’t eat all at once: if you eat a little bit every time, you’ll end up eating the whole thing. It’s definitely what keeps me going.
What about when you reach your goals, do you enjoy it or does it ever happen that you’ve been so focused on it, that you take it for granted?
Of course, I enjoy it, because I enjoy the process so much. I don’t really stress over it.
Even though it can be a difficult process, does the result make you feel good, or do you already have your mind set on the next goal?
I think I enjoy everything. Even if it’s intense and difficult – in fact, I enjoy it way more if it’s difficult. Sacrifices are worth it. But I don’t consider anything to be a sacrifice if you enjoy the process. The hardest thing for me is to be patient. For example, when it comes to issuing my Spanish visa, this is something that didn’t depend on me so much; the target was to have my legal documents, so this goal could be divided into some smaller steps, some quicker than others. I don’t stress over it, because I do whatever I can, whatever is on me; and I don’t despair over the things that don’t depend on me, because it’s not in my hands. In the meantime, I do whatever it is that depends on me. Patience is definitely something I’ve worked on since moving to Barcelona. Learning to deal with the fact that some things don’t depend on you, so you shouldn’t let it get you down.
Do you open up to new people easily, or do you consider yourself to be more selective? Is it hard to get your trust?
Yes, it’s really hard (everyone laughs)! I’m very selective; I let barely anyone in on my personal life. In fact, if I go skating, I’m very sociable, but I don’t let just anyone in my personal life. I feel that I’m really sensitive and emotional. Especially being so far away and having to choose my family, my bonds are very valuable, since I need to take care of myself. Everything and everyone around you has something to contribute to your life, and that’s super important for me. I like having a small circle of people who really care for me. I’ve felt more vulnerable here, and when you choose the people around you poorly, everything gets infected. I’m really thankful for the people I have close to me.
Frontside boardslide, Barcelona.
What roles do these people have?
They’re very important, after all, they’re the family that I’ve chosen. I also learned to let go of bad relationships, even family ones.
How do you express your love towards the people that you love?
By making pancakes! Ha ha ha. I don’t really express it with words. Since I was little, in my house, we didn’t say ‘I love you’ often, so that took a little getting used to. I don’t think I need to say it loads either, because I think I’m really good at doing things that demonstrate my love, that’s my way of saying it. And making pancakes, of course.
Little by little, you start expressing it more openly ha ha ha. Any story that shaped you into the person you are today?
I would say that what made me into a new person, that moment of ‘up until then I was somebody, and then I became someone else’ was a moment when someone really close to me passed away. Before that, when I was little, I used to read the Bible every day. I was a super religious Bible-reading-freak. I even went on religious trips, but after that, I just threw all those things out and forgot about it. This switch brought me a lot of good and bad things because I started trying to get things off my chest by partying, but, thanks to that, I got introduced to skateboarding. That was like a transition. Unconsciously, I needed to let go of the pain and anger that I felt, so, when I started skating, I stopped partying and started getting things off my chest by skating. I skated all day and didn’t think about anything else. It was like a game to me, like getting away from reality.
Fakie 5-0 transfer, Santa Perpetua.
Is that still so?
Yes, but in a different way. My way of looking at skateboarding has changed a little. It’s still the most important part of my life and what I love doing the most, but before I just wanted to skate and would literally do nothing else. Now, I enjoy exploring, trying out and learning new things, etc. For instance, at the moment I’m really motivated to play the drums and learn about plants, but I am yet to find something that gives me the same feeling of satisfaction and happiness as skateboarding.
Did you ever imagine that you could get to where you are right now just by skateboarding?
Not at all, because it used to be just a way to escape: I didn’t want to be home, because I was 15 and had a bunch of family issues. I would take my board and go out all day: gone in the morning and back by nighttime. I would sleep, then go out again. I didn’t want to think about anything that wasn’t skating. I loved it because it allowed me to forget about everything else and it became addictive.
Was there a point in your life where you realised you wanted to just skate?
Never. I mean, yes, but not like, living off skating, but rather skating every day. There was a moment where I realised I would rather rest and not go out to party so that I could skate the next day. I realised I wanted to skate always, that it was what I really wanted to do because it makes me happy. Yes, I wanted to skate, but on my own, with no ambitions.
How was your learning process when you started skating? Was it difficult?
At first, I would get laughed at, because I pushed mongo, and I was a girl! Not to mention the problems I had at home… For me, skating was something intimate and private. It wasn’t so much about going skating with friends. At the start, it was something that was just mine, something I really enjoyed doing by myself. I would do it on the sidewalk in front of my house because we didn’t even have decent flat ground anywhere near. I remember I spent like six months skating in front of my house. I was too embarrassed to go to the skatepark, everything was too big for me: quarters, banks and humongous rails. One day I dropped off the bank and crashed into a boy, flew for like ten metres onto the ground, and I didn’t go back for a long time.
When I started skating around 2012, there was a boom in skateboarding. My younger sister skated, and in four months she could already ollie, frontside ollie and kickflip, whereas I was still learning how to ollie. The boys would make fun of me and laugh at my ollies. They said I only skated because it was trendy and because I wanted the boys to like me – not like they were that good looking ha ha ha!
By that time I had a group of friends and that’s when I started skating with other people besides my sister. But I would normally be taking a bus and going to the skatepark, which was located in the most dangerous neighbourhood; I would go at 5am or 7am, so that no one would see me. I would skate by myself for hours.
Ride-on, 50-50 Barcelona.
What was the first trick you landed?
Pop shove-it.
Ours was the Fakie Pop Shove-it! Ha ha ha…
Ha ha ha ha!
And then you learned the
Blunt 270
?
(Laughs)
Tell us about the hardest slam you’ve taken that you can’t forget about, or something you’ve done that you were terrified of. What comes to your head?
In life in general, I can’t think of anything, I’m super brave, ha ha. Maybe living in my neighbourhood in Argentina… That’s constant adrenaline! Ha ha ha.
But a slam? This one (she points to her chin, full of stitches) is unforgettable because I wasn’t even skating. It was surreal… Want me to tell you what happened? I got to the bar, was gonna have a beer with some friends, I felt good… I was outside of the bar with Schianta and Martino. I smoked a cigarette, went inside to order a beer and the waiter told me something I couldn’t understand. I was super dizzy at this point, I don’t know what I replied to him, I told him I was going to the bathroom, I took two steps, and, suddenly, I woke up. The lights had gone out in my head.
How long were you unconscious for?
Around two minutes. I woke up as if I was waking up from a nap and I felt a spoon in my mouth and my friends were around me saying, ‘Tania, Tania, Tania’… And that’s when I realised I had passed out. They gave me water and I started to feel little pieces of tooth floating in my mouth… I stood up, super dizzy and sore. I saw a little bit of blood on the ground. I had just severed my chin. They called an ambulance and there was a whole drama going on (I just wanted to forget what just happened and have a beer, but they wouldn’t let me)… I was immediately sent to the hospital and everything was fine. The worst part was that I thought I had lost my front teeth, and I was really scared because I don’t have the money to fix them, ha ha ha!
Yeah, not to mention waking up bleeding on the floor, without knowing what happened. Let’s talk about nice things now. What do you consider your biggest achievement? Something you’re really proud of.
My biggest achievement has been learning how to love myself and take care of myself. I always had a lot of freedom and independence, but I didn’t know how to use them. I even got off track a little and was self-destructive for a while.
Learning is important, isn’t it? In order to grow, you need to self-destruct a little, so that you understand what it is you want, how you want to see yourself and what you need in order to take care of yourself. Each one of us has our own process and we all have to learn.
The important thing is to not remain in that self-destructive feedback loop forever. And to know yourself. I feel like this is constant because we change all the time and we can’t have it under control all the time. When I got here, something clicked in my head, because all I had was myself. I didn’t have another option but to look inwards and get to know myself.
I think I thought I had it all under control at some point, but then it all came crashing down on me again. Nowadays, even if the same kinds of situations happen to me, I will not act the same way I did before. At the end of the day, it doesn’t matter what happens, or what others are doing, what matters is the way I react. I’m very proud of the person I am now, everything I went through and the lessons I learned. It’s a constant learning process, of course, but maybe I wouldn’t do the same before. I think I was a bit crazy before getting here, then for two years I focused on my tranquillity and introspection, and now I’ve found a balance.
Are you impulsive?
Am I impulsive? Yes. When I moved over here, I just decided that’s what I wanted to do, and came. It wasn’t at all in my plans, I was supposed to finish my university degree in Nutrition and stay in Argentina, but…
And what about your biggest failure, what would you say it was?
The exact opposite of what we just said. My biggest failure was to forget myself. I was in a super toxic relationship with someone, my worst nightmare. One of the worst things I’ve experienced, but that happened in the best moment of my life.
I would have dealt with it terribly if it had happened at another time in life. It happened when everything started working out with skateboarding and I had some opportunities. So I was feeling really good and focused, everything was going well for me, except for my relationship.
Besides that, from the outside, it looked like everything was going well for me, but in fact I was devastated. We lived together and nobody knew what truly went on in that house. The fact that it happened at that moment gave me something to hold on to, a reason to come out of it stronger. ‘I don’t feel well, but I need to get up and do all this.’ I didn’t have anything yet, but I saw all of my dreams coming closer and I had to reach out to them, go out and get them.
It was a super intense year. Everything was working out on the one hand, but at home I was living a nightmare for a year and a half; even though it felt like ten.
The good thing is that when someone creates problems for you and makes you suffer, you can better appreciate the things that make you feel good and the people that really love and care for you. Look at it like a failure, but one that makes you learn and become stronger, so it’s actually a success.
Yes. And the good thing was that it gave me more
motivation to skate. Just like when I was 15 and skated to blow off some steam, once again skateboarding was my refuge and my getaway. It gives me life.
Nothing is more inspiring than a broken heart, isn’t that right?
For sure. If everything was going smoothly, maybe I wouldn’t have had the motivation to go for it. It gave me a lot of strength. But that’s something I’m trying to change. Why do bad things have to happen in order for me to see the good things and focus?
Ha ha ha…
We talked about your biggest achievement as well as your biggest failure. On another note, would you like to be an inspiration for anyone, or does that make you feel uneasy?
I never thought about that. I think I’m focused on myself at this time of my life, on my learning process and I don’t often stop to think about how others see me. I don’t think I’m an example for anyone.
Pop shove-it into the bank, El Prat.
Is social media important to you?
Not at all. I have an Instagram account, but it’s not so important to me. I like living in the
real world. I’ve been skating a lot lately, but I’ve also been doing loads of other things that are unrelated to skateboarding. Now that I have time, I can enjoy doing loads of other stuff.
So you don’t pay attention to what people may say about you on social media?
It is not like I don’t pay attention to it, because most of the time I get support from people and I really appreciate it. But it is really important to not forget that social media isn’t real and that people don’t really know you. You only show what you wanna show, probably everyone thinks you’re super happy and you got everything, but reality can be different. Everyone is struggling with something; also it is important to not compare yourself with anyone.
I’m also conscious that there are a lot of people following me (at least for me it’s a lot). Young girls who write nice messages to me, and I appreciate it a lot… I would love to talk more with them someday, not only about skateboarding, but also rather about the values that are intrinsic to skating and the importance of doing what makes you happy and being yourself, without caring about what other people might think.
What would you say to the people who would like to take a decision and seem to be stuck?
This question scares me, because I feel like that’s always been me. Trying to motivate my family and friends to do things they want to do and don’t dare to try. I think I do that so much they end up telling me to fuck off.
That’s because you’re so demanding with yourself, maybe that’s the reason why you tell them they have to do it, and you motivate them.
I feel like I’m not so demanding with myself, I think there’s always more that I could do.
You’re demanding, and sacrificing; yet when you see results, you go and reach out for more. Do you have any advice for our readers?
The only advice I could give is: if you want something, go and get it, no matter how.
That’s great. And now to wrap up the interview, can we expect to see anything of you in the next months?
A Foundation video will be the next thing to come out, in December, I’m so excited about it. And also projects with Vans in 2023, dates haven’t been announced yet. And maybe, just maybe, you can expect a plant tutorial on YouTube, ha ha ha!
An Onlyfans, but with plants ha ha ha.
An Onlyfans dedicated to plants and a tutorial video of me playing the drums.
That’s great, we’ll keep our eyes peeled <3

================================================================================

BY Arthur  •  August 4, 2020
7 Day Project – ‘Au réveil, il était midi’
Amélien Foures, ollie
For
issue 31
of the mag eight European photographers were tasked with coming up with a concept for an article that could be shot between the 25th of May and the 1st of June1 2020, just as Covid-19 lockdown restriction measures were starting to ease… Clément Le Gall chose to shoot solely between the hours of 6am and 8am in Bordeaux, Alex Richard wrote some words to accompany the photography and Luc Mazières was on filming duties.
When Clem first floated the idea, without any kind of hesitation or doubt, for me the answer was yes. I was down.
Obviously you had to be quite committed but it seemed exciting, like a new kind of challenge for which you had no choice but to outdo yourself.
The concept was to wake up early to hit spots that are usually pretty much skate-stopped by a constant flow of pedestrians and traffic, but also to take advantage of the unique light that creeps through Bordeaux’s city centre at dawn whilst documenting our exploits.
Olivier Durou, backside tailslide
(SMS between Olivier Durou & Alex Richard)
Olivier: Yo Alex tomorrow we’re meeting at 5:45 at the water mirror spot for that thing Clem is shooting.
Olivier: It’ll be Luc, Amélien, Clem and me…
Alex: Ok yeah I’m keen but working at 11 so I’ll let you know tonight if I’m definitely on it.
Olivier: Come on it would be sick if you came, the forecast is saying it’ll be clear blue skies all morning, the light will be so sick by the river.
Alex: I’ll let you know tonight!
Olivier: Ah man you’re not sounding too hyped on this… You are not into the idea anymore or what?
Alex: No no I am! It’s more my physical capabilities that I’m starting to doubt…
Olivier: To be fair I sprained my ankle last Monday so between that and my muscles still probably being half asleep at that time I’m gonna have to be pretty careful.
Alex: Alright I’ll just give you a call tomorrow around five.
Olivier: Come on let’s get it! Leo is off to some party but claims he’s just going to stay up to meet us on the session ha ha. Bet he’ll end up doing the best trick despite having been out all night as well…
Olivier: You hear that Dadou fucked his collarbone too? So Luc is supposed to cover for him in the kitchen at 11 after the sesh ha ha. Plus then Milou gets here tomorrow and he’s supposed to be filming him in the afternoons… There’s no way he’s surviving this week ha ha.
So the crew was composed of: Olivier Durou, our manager/coach who throughout the week tried to make sure that everything would go as planned and that everyone was present in spirit and body, Clément Le Gall, the instigator and photographer on this project, Amélien Foures, a keen young man who never complains and seemingly did not notice the time at which he was hucking all week, Luc Mazière on camera duties and myself. Based on our first mission, the daily meet up time would be around 5:45 am.
So day one the alarm goes off at five, I’m out of the house half an hour later and on my way to the water mirror, a spot with its defining feature being a set of stairs (as in that’s literally all there is to skate). So not a particularly smart move for our first sunrise session… Of course given the excitement and motivation that comes with it being the first day, we all completely forgot that it was still dark outside and one after the other proceeded to repeatedly hurl ourselves down these stairs, completely oblivious to the potential consequences this might have on our bodies. The rest of the morning unfolded without any hiccups and everyone headed home happy to have made it through these few hours whilst even managing to have a relatively good time.
Amélien Foures, ride-on 50-50 grind
It did not take my body very long to feel the repercussions of that early morning stair session.
One thing that I’ve learnt about pain is that it can truly be multiplied exponentially depending on the time at which it is felt. Try to think back and remember that time when in the middle of the night you kicked your little toe into the pointiest corner of your bedside table as you were scrambling through the darkness desperate for a piss…
Well taking a hang up slam or a primo slam at six in the morning kind of feels like taking two of them back to back at three in the afternoon. Add to that the good old late night kicking of the bedside table syndrome you’re looking at something that becomes A LOT more annoying and frustrating than usual. With all this in mind it’s only natural the morning after those 20 minutes of pointlessly throwing myself down those stairs I’d be experiencing post Tour de France levels of stiffness.
Amélien Foures, Smith grind
The second day was for me a complete failure that involved giving up and leaving the first spot after only about an hour, followed by an extremely pleasant return to the comfort of my dearly missed bed. I was starting to understand that I might not have what it takes for this project… Skateboarding already being an activity that I find at times extremely painful and traumatising, why add more pain? Admitting defeat is never easy but even harder is committing to this activity when the only real valid reason to be doing it isn’t there: having fun.
PJ Chapuis, wallie tailgrab
For my third and final day, along with the fear of breaking both my legs skating flat I enjoyed a nice bit of severe hay fever and with it came endless questioning around the purpose of my presence amongst these people… I was also generally just astonished at how well Olivier and Amélien had been skating these last three days without ever complaining or showing any sign of a struggle. All this of course whilst desperately wanting to go back to sleep for a bit before going to work.
Olivier Durou, backside nosebluntslide pop-out
So that’s how, after three days, I decided to quit the adventure; filled with regret and not particularly proud of my performance as a deserter but also so fucking stoked to never ever have to skate that early in the morning again. It was of course hard to come to terms with the fact that I physically just didn’t have it in me but also interesting to realise that my desire and motivation to skateboard had real limits, even if it’s to film for a video and take photos for a magazine. Sometimes your body and your mind come together to very clearly tell you that ‘no, this time you will not succeed and if you keep pushing it will not end well.’
Amélien Foures, backside nosegrind revert transfer
To me the maddest thing about all this is that the bravest of the crew (so obviously not me) even managed to summon enough courage to meet normal people at normal times to skate after their naps… And in some cases they even managed to get some extra afternoon clips and photos! How they managed to finish the week in one piece with enough crack of dawn photos for the article you’re looking at is honestly beyond me.
Click on the gallery below for more photos
View Gallery | 16 images

================================================================================

BY Will  •  February 1, 2021
Grey Area – Standard Observer
Words by Roland Hoogwater
Photography by Kuba Bączkowski
Welcome to Warsaw, my name is Roland, not that that info is relevant but my little tiny part in the story of Grey Area is what I will use to construct a story for you, the trusted readers of
Free
. This story is a portrait of my time with Michał Juraś and a couple of Kubas. But mainly this article is about Kuba Kaczmarczyk aka Kuba #1, who is the glue behind the Grey Area project.
Meeting my first Kuba
My story starts on the night between the 6th and 7th of December in Berlin. To be more specific, it would be the first time I would meet Kuba #1 also known as Filmer Kuba. The whole reason he was in town was that it was one of those sales summits of one of those big shoe brands that have both Cristiano Ronaldo & King James as ambassadors.
For those of you that have never been to one of these meetings: The #1 goal is to sell the product to shops and the #2 goal is to show the people from the shops a good time. So needless to say the alcohol was flowing in one of Berlin’s many brown-bars and the day was getting late. I was really trying to hang in there up until an OG type of figure dressed almost completely in grey big logo clothing slowly crept towards me. He looked at me sternly and started to speak in a thick Eastern-European accent. ‘You are … right?’ I heard you are good friends with Michał, he speaks highly of you and … work. I was kinda drunk so I took the compliment well and returned the favour by saying, ‘I like your work too, and I like Warsaw – one of my favourite skate trips took place in that city.’ He nodded and said, ‘Yeah Warsaw is ok but Gdansk is better.’* The slow testosterone-driven process of male bonding had begun but I did not yet know what I was getting myself into juuuusssst yet.
*Note from Kuba #1: I didn’t say Gdansk is better. You can’t write this. My Warsaw pride wouldn’t have let me say things like this.
Kuba & Corona
Fast forward to February this year (pre-Covid lockdowns) I get a DM from Kuba #1 asking if I want to go on a Grey Area filming trip to Gdansk with Jan Henrik Kongstein, Michał Juras´, etc. My first thought, as a media member is that you know, feeling the vibe for a future article much like this one but for a different publication. But he tells me ‘No
Free Mag
will do the article, I would like you to be there as a skater.’ Normally I would add (laughs) the end of that quote but he meant it. Just to paint a picture of my physique, I am a 1.87 metre tall, chubby white guy, who is slowly creeping towards the moment that my age will match my waistline and I am not talking W34 either (I wish). I mean, I was down to go but at the same time a sweat did break out at the prospect of having to land tricks, which did get my weight down a little bit I guess. Now, in the end, Covid stopped the international aspirations that this chapter of Grey Area was supposed to represent. People like Eniz Fazliov, Jan Henrik Kongstein & Tom Remillard were prevented from coming but it didn’t stop Kuba #1 from making this 4th chapter of the Grey Area story a reality.
Daniel Pannemann, channel ollie, Berlin
Warszawa
3rd of September. Warsaw Train Station. Filmer Kuba picks me up in his VW Golf. The first thing I notice is that the grey has changed into a nice dark blue and that the brand has switched from a footwear big logo to a very nice NYC based sustainable fashion clothing brand. I confront him about it and his stern face opens up and a smile appears, ‘That is my work outfit, now this is my personal collection.’ He drives me to the apartment that he booked for Danijel Stankovic, Daniel Pannemann, and myself. The others arrive the next day.
Soon it became apparent that I had misjudged Kuba #1 entirely, the conversation flipped towards fashion, trends, and the prices of certain skateboard collab shoes on that one sneakerhead marketplace. ‘Ah you liked those, yeah those ones are like 400€ on the app, which is special because it is model (x) And not model (y),’ he said, talking about that collab between that Portland-based sportswear brand & that board brand that Jesse Alba skates for. I was a bit taken aback, yet I felt like we had taken our next step towards a more solid friendship.
By the way, he told me he didn’t quite understand the vibe of that company named after some Amphibian. He felt the tricks were a bit dorky, I told him that is exactly what I loved. ‘There were enough videos with macho beer-drinking flannel-wearing skaters in it,’ and that ‘I feel like that vibe is fine for some but there is more room for other things in skateboarding as well.’ #1 agreed on that but he remained skeptical and often would say that my tricks were a bit like tricks.
After that, we started talking about politics and history and how Poland was often passed around between countries until it reached its current form. Kuba told me about the impact of growing up in a communist system and the destruction the city saw in WWII. ‘You know Poland came together to rebuild the old city centre after the war? The whole country helped make the reconstruction of the old centre a successful project. People came down from the countryside and helped’ see side notes #1,#2,#3. I knew a bit about this because I had researched the city before my 2015 skate visit. I always thought it showed the mental fortitude of the Polish people to re-make something as pivotal to a city and try to make it as it was before, especially because the old-centre was lost during a very traumatic time in Poland’s history. I don’t think they did it to forget these moments but I always felt it was done to send out a message to the extent of: ‘You can’t keep us down; we will always get back up.’ Or at least that is how I took it. At the end of our little drive towards the apartment, Kuba #1 made one of the first jokes of many, ‘You know, we Poles often say that God played a cruel joke on us when he placed Poland in between Russia and Germany.’
Side note #1: The old centre was remodelled after the paintings of the 18th-century Italian painter Bernardo Bellotto. He corrected objects in his painting to suit the work and so he made the streets and houses look better, straighter and newer than they supposedly were. It came to a point that survivors did not quite recognise the new old centre.
Side note #2: The destruction was done by the Nazis as a measure of retaliation because of the Warsaw Uprising in 1944.
Side note #3: Polish philosopher Leopold Tyrmand said about the reconstruction: ‘one of the philosophers calculated that Varsovians inhaled four bricks each year at that time. One must love one’s city in order to rebuild it at the cost of one’s own breathing.’
Andrzej Kwiatek, Ride-on 50-50, Warsaw
Who is a Pole?
Polish people have a trained nose that they use to sniff out other Poles. ‘Did you know that Oski has a Polish grandmother?’ Juras´ once told me, ‘Pontus has some roots here that is why his alter ego has a Polish sounding name.’ Michał once got me to ask Stefan Janoski about his Polish roots and taught me the correct way to pronounce his last name, which Stefan greatly appreciated, ‘oh I hear you are using the Polish J in my name, I like that.’ The point being that there is a strong sense of pride in all of the Polish people that I have met about the fact that they are Polish. That doesn’t mean that they are nationalistic or proud of the way the country is developing. As I write this the country is seeing its largest protests since the fall of communism because of the way the conservative government is treating women’s rights. They are proud of their culture and the humans and things it has produced. Role models and movements are important. Sylvester Stallone being probably the main inspiration for all Polish people. Rocky specifically has shown up in many a Polish skaters’ video part over the years. Just imagine hearing someone with that thick accent screaming AAAAAAADRIAAAAAAN just after landing a trick (see side note #4).
But to bring home the point, I think at the core of the Grey Area project there is the drive to show newer generations of Poles that they can do it: start a project and build it and get noticed across the borders of their own nation. We actually saw the fruits of that idea through people like Krzysztof Godek who put out a successful video project last year featuring a different crew of mostly young Polish up-and-comers.
Side note #4: I almost started a fight when I told Michał Juraś that Kuba #3 aka Kuba Brniak looked more like Stallone than he did. Michał instantly went through his phone and popped up this picture where he copied an epic Rocky mirror shot at home and asked: ‘You sure? Look again!’ I told him I still felt like Kuba #3 looked more like Stallone. Afterwards, I noticed Juraś looked at me differently.
Michał Juraś, 50-50, Warsaw
#LegendaryPolishPower
No matter what Kuba #1 tries to tell you on that premiere online video streaming site that Free uses, #LegendaryPolishPower is the official title for the video. It has its origins in the current Light-Heavyweight title holder with the three-lettered MMA-promotion and proud Pole Jan ‘The Prince Of Cieszyn’ Błachowicz. Being a massive underdog in his fight for the title against Dominic Reyes, he did what Rocky did and knocked out his opponent with his self-proclaimed #LegendaryPolishPower. Soon little videos of Jan talking about his power made their way into our chat groups and it morphed into the running joke of the video. It was a constant point of reference to which we would return. After dinner, one would say, quoting Jan: ‘Tomorrow I am going to show my Legendary Polish Power,’ after which smiles would appear. During some of the more gnarly tricks, it would take the edge off. It would also be used when Kuba #2 aka Kuba Barrier aka Photo Kuba was in the process of setting up his equipment. ‘Use your LPP to shoot the best photos!’ It’s no secret that Poland is a deeply religious country and that is often reflected through the country’s athletes. Take for example Jan Błachowicz who once found a man hanging from a tree, called the police and got the rope as a gift. Legend has it that the rope is supposed to bring him luck in his fights. He now touches it before every fight. Every legend has its own mystery.
CRIBS
English is a language spoken only sometimes in Poland. In 2015 on my first trip there we got drunk and played music on our balcony. After we went to sleep magically the police knocked on our door. I opened, semi-drunk and in my boxers. A flashlight was projected at my face and three officers spoke sternly to me in Polish. After their speech, I calmly replied, ‘English?’ after which they looked lost for words and just replied ‘Music…NO!’ The Grey Area gang has a way stronger grasp of the English language but like many of us non-native speakers (myself included) they have picked up their English mostly from listening to Hip-Hop albums. Now there is a slight and subtle difference between the Queen’s English and the English spoken in Queens, NYC. That difference became noticeable in our moments spent together, ‘Do you like your Crib?’ Kuba #1 asked me upon entering the Airbnb. ‘That trick was hella dope’ Juras´ would sometimes proclaim after watching Jugga try a move on his board. Kuba #1 wants me to say that they do it to be funny but it feels to me like Rob Dyrdek’s TV shows had more influence on the speech patterns of the average Pole than they are willing to admit to.
Michał Juraś, Gap to backside nosegrind, Warsaw
Get you a Pole that can do both
In closing, I would like to say that, even though similar to their Russian neighbours, Poles aren’t known for their smiles. Behind their often hard looking exterior, they have some soft parts as well. I can truly say that I haven’t laughed so hard on a skate trip maybe ever. And to be fair, it is a Dutch tradition to show love to your friends by taking the piss out of them. So, consider this my love letter to all my Poles out there.
Danijel ‘Jugga’ Stankovic, Ollie, Warsaw
What can you say about this very tall and slender man with dyed hair? Like the Polish people, he has self-deprecating humour for days. He is a Serbian with Croat blood (the ‘90s must have been a confusing time). I am pretty sure that ‘Jugga’ is a word used to diss Yugoslavian people in Sweden, yet he has turned it around, and now it is his nickname. Moreover, he has a strong opinion that he is very willing to share. He leads with his heart and he is a hustler type of figure (not a shady one). You might know him from his karaoke singing, Portland sportswear company managing days. Those days are now behind him.
Back in the day, he was in loads of trouble sometimes because of his heritage and sometimes because of his actions but he was always smart and entrepreneurially minded. On a school trip, he and his friends found a tobacco distribution centre and smuggled cigarettes from Prague back to Malmö to slang them at his high school.
He did this so he could buy shoes and boards. ‘My mom raised me by herself so I knew funds were limited. I didn’t want to ask her for anything, I wanted to pay for things myself,’ he said explaining his motives.
When he came to Warsaw he was in a back-in-the-day type of mood. Slinging an app named after the moment your board hits your shins, talking about community and sharing skate spots until we pressed the download button with our sweaty fingers. This man can sell sand to the Arabs but he can’t convince himself that he is a great skater.
Franek Kramarczyk, Frontside wallride, Opole
He wasn’t with us once, but in Warsaw, all the Kuba’s kept dropping his name. Franek did this here; Franek can do those easily. So I guess he is a great skater. Personality-wise, I was told he likes to smoke that green stuff a lot. This leads me to believe he might have traded some personality for some skateboard ability. But who knows, he might be one of those active smokers that like to do things after they smoke. I hope so because most smokers I know are boring as shit. Still, some of the tricks he did at those spots were gnarly as fuck so it might be worth it.
Andrzej Palenica, Frontside smith grind, Berlin
Straight outta Krakow comes this young skater. He shocked us in Warsaw by kickflipping into a very steep bank with relative ease. Kuba #2 wanted to get the pic (or it didn’t happen right), but the next try he folded his ankle like a hot knife through butter. Juraś being the hero, rushed to a sklep and got some ice. Dre thought it might be broken but in the end, about three weeks later he was healthy as can be in Berlin. It must have been that Legendary Polish Power that healed him.
Agata Halikowska, Wallie 50-50, Berlin
My personal pick for the strongest display of Legendary Polish Power during our time spent together. She was the MVP in Berlin and she is a silent killer with a smile and like all people in this project, she knows how to battle and win. In Warsaw, she first beat me and Jugga in a game of s.k.a.t.e., and then she proceeded to kickflip this street gap with ease that I had been battling.
If this was an article written in the early 2000’s I would be thinking about the consequences to my manhood but it is 2020 so fuck all that noize. Agata is the bee’s knees! By the way skateboard companies, she doesn’t have a board sponsor… Are you sleeping on the job? Or has covid impaired your ability to spot talent?
Tomek Ziśłkowski, Wallie, Wrocław
I won’t name names but someone close to the situation asked me to help Tomek dress differently. He doesn’t dress bad but the curtain doesn’t match the drapes. His mind and his skating is pretty but he dresses like Luan De Oliveira. Tomek get your mind right, get your shine right, you have the potential to grow and be great.
Michał Juraś, Gap to boardslide, Warsaw
Love him a lot, he is the kindest, hardest working, and the second funniest Polish person I know after Kuba #1. Michał had a rough time from the end of 2019 up until mid-2020. A pretty nasty bail required the doctors to insert a catheter into Michał’s body. A series of partly failed operations plus Covid-19 delays then led to him not being able to piss or skate for eight months.
He sent me some videos of him walking and emptying his bag at the same time and he swore off ever skating kinked handrails. During my visit to Warsaw, he would piss everywhere, ‘I just don’t care anymore!’ he said with a big ass smile on his face. I wonder if he doubled his water intake after they removed the catheter because I have never seen anyone as happy that they needed to do a number 1.
Michał ‘Dida’ Zarzycki, Taildrop, Warsaw
Franek about Dida (aka Michał Zarzycki): I’ve known this guy for over ten years, so I am not sure if this is the best story I can tell you about Dida but I will tell it anyway.
It is one of the most terrifying stories for sure. Dida was in Aalst, Belgium for the Shop Riot competition back in 2012 after winning the Polish version of the event. The skaters involved had been staying together in a hotel. A little party took place in Dida’s room. You know how it is with skateboarders sometimes; we go too hard and do stupid shit… But imagine how Dida must have felt when some random homie fell through his window all the way down until he hit the pavement. Dida was around 15 at the time and the cops were investigating him until the early morning hours. That was his first time on the big skate event circuit. And instead of having a fun trip, the police had to ask Dida if it was him who pushed this poor dude, who in reality was just unlucky and fell from the second floor.
Daniel Pannemann, Indy grab, Warsaw
It isn’t that easy to write something about such a good friend, but let me say this: we often wear the same clothes to work without checking beforehand.
He loves his dog a lot, a lot, but for some reason, the dog and I don’t get along. His last name refers to taxmen that back in the day went door to door to collect. Obviously, these people weren’t loved and were given the name Pannemann to diss them. Daniel is well-loved though, in case you were wondering.
Kuba Brniak aka Kuba #3, Backside 50-50, Warsaw
Youngest of all the Kuba’s mentioned and also the most innocent of the three. He really got his shine in the last project and this project should be the follow up to that. He loves Krakow and he loves his skate shop, which he claims is way better than the one in Warsaw. One negative point is that he was kinda lazy at times during the filming and he got a stern talking-to by Juraś, Kuba & Kuba. If it worked? Only the footage will show.
Kuba Bączkowski aka Kuba #2 aka Kuba Barrier
A man with a cigarette in his mouth, some camo cargo pants, a camera in his hand and some strong opinions. Want to hear his truth? Just ask him as he won’t offer them to you out of the blue. Most sarcastic of all my Polish comrades but with a warm heart and some really nice flatground. His photos you can judge
for yourself.
www.greyareaskate.com