Interview by Marcus. Photos by CJ Harker.
What are you doing back in Texas?
I’m just visiting family right now, and doing a little skate trip with some Philly homies. Came down here to skate some ditches.
When did you move to Philly?
I moved to South Jersey in August 2017 for school. Then I moved to Philly when I graduated in Spring 2019.
So how did you first meet Sloan?
I first met Sloan at the downtown skate park in Austin. He was there with his dog Rez and his girlfriend Peyton. They had just moved into town. He was like, “yo, is it cool to drink here or what?” After that he just messaged me on Instagram and started going on skate trips with us right away. He was down. As soon as we met him, we went on out of town trips that first week and he was just part of the group. It was sick.
What did you go to school for? And why did you choose Jersey?
I have a degree in scientific glassblowing and I chose the school I went to in Jersey because it’s the only school in the country that offers that specific program. It’s a really old program that’s pretty well known. I was always interested in glassblowing and just wanted to find a way to do it for a living. My sister was working in a lab and that’s kind of how I got introduced to scientific glass blowing and now that’s what I do for a living.
So you make test tubes and shit?
I mean, test tubes get made by machines but yeah, I pretty much went to school to learn how to make custom lab equipment. I currently make inclinometers, little glass bubble levels that go in airplanes and firetrucks and trains.
Have you made a lot of bongs?
I haven’t. A lot of people in school are super good at that stuff. I made one in school and gave it to my friend to finish off.
What was the last video part you put out?
Last full part I put out was
Echoes
by Vinney Vallagomez. We worked on that one for probably three years, it came out in 2019 and it was a lot of Austin. He moved out to the East Coast the same time as me and Jeff Rasp. So we finished it up out here and it was a sick full length video.
Who’s older you or your brother?
We’re twins. So we’re technically the same age but I was born 30 minutes first.
Have you ever used your twin status strategically?
We get that question a lot. We look a lot alike, but we’re not necessarily identical. I think it comes in handy. When we were younger, we got a couple acting jobs. We did a couple where we were so young that we both played the same character. They split up our hours so we wouldn’t go over child labor laws. Like some Mary Kate and Ashley shit.
Are you filming for anything right now?
Yeah, we’re filming for a homie video with our crew, the brokebois crew, broke boi entertainment. That’s part of the reason we’re down here in Texas. We’re trying to wrap it up over the summer and put it out in August.
How broke are the brokebois?
Oh man. Pretty broke. I have to say, man, it comes in waves. I think everybody’s stable, but we’re always broke, even when we got money.
For people who don’t know, who are the brokebois?
This is just hard, true, real, homies in Philly. So we got Tyler and Henry and Jeff and Matt, and we got so many other homies that join us too. We got some homies up in New York that we skate with. We got a whole girl group of skaters that we skate with constantly like Jackie, Carla, Sophie, Bridge, Ang, Celina, Caroline, and everybody else.
Were you at FDR for that women’s contest? What was it like?
Oh yeah, for sure. I had to go support the homies. It was amazing. It was like one of the biggest turnouts for any event, if not the biggest. There was a lot of girls that came out and there was a lot of cool vendors and it was just amazing. And of course Caroline won. Queen Caroline. Yeah dude, it’s sick because Caroline and Jeff are dating and Caroline won this big contest and Jeff has won sober versus wasted. They’re like the current king and queen of FDR.
How many of Michael Sieben’s companies have you rode for?
I’ve rode for two of Michael Sieben’s companies. He’s had at least three board companies, or four? So it went from Bueno to Roger to Program and I got on Program, then they switched back to Roger and now I get Roger boards. But yeah, Michael Sieben’s the best.
Tell us something about your awesome mom.
Well, my mom is the best. She’s just an old hippy lady who’s been a landscaper her whole life, horticulturist, you know. She’s a professional, but she’s a true lover of nature that just nerds out on it. She’s the sweetest person ever. We always kind of had the house where friends hung out growing up and she’s just always right there in the mix. Like she can hang with my homies even if I’m not there.
If the world collapsed do you think you’d be able to fend for yourself and live confidently?
Yeah, I’d say so man, I mean I grew up in Texas. I grew up camping my entire life and I think I’d be a good outdoorsman fending for myself.
What’s the most you’ve ever been tested on your survival skills?
A few years back Vinnie and Tanner and an ex-girlfriend of mine took a trip out to Big Bend National Park and ended up getting trapped in a flash flood when we were at an off the grid camp spot with no cell service on dirt roads. It was pretty much a whole day of physical and mental tests. It was a wild ride but I don’t regret any of it. Luckily we were out there with Tanner and he’s from the area so we did all right. We made it out. There were drugs involved, and driving a minivan through mud. There was a lot to it.
What’s something you don’t want people to know about you?
Why would I tell you that?
Who would you rather be roommates with Bam or Andy Roy?
Oh god. Can I say neither? Do I have to choose? I think I’m going to say Bam, only because I think Andy Roy’s voice would drive me crazy.
What’s something that you wish you were good at, but you’re not?
That’s a tough one. I’m just going to say kickflips, because my brother is good at them and I always wish I had good kickflips.
What’s something you regret being good at?
Combo ledge tricks. I had that phase when I was younger. Probably didn’t need to go as far as I did. I went through the whole boardslide variation combo phase. I went through a whole slappy noseslide phase, but then that kind of blew up and I had to stop doing that.
You don’t do ledge combos anymore?
I mean, you got to bust them out every once in a while.

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis
So what’d we get into today Jaime?
We went and skated the piss ledge in Brooklyn. It lived up to the name, and the shit splattered on the wall was pretty cool too. I’ve skated spots that had a piss smell in the past, but that one was very intense and didn’t go away.
Agreed. So it all started in Florence, South Carolina for you?
Yup, I was born and raised in South Carolina, born in 1974.
Did you start shooting skating there?
Kind of. I remember these girls did a whole slideshow of all the photos they’d taken when we were in high school and I got so bummed there were no photos of any of our crew. So I decided I was going to get a camera just to shoot photos of us hanging out. I started skating when I was like eight or nine, so I was skating by then, but by late high school I was wanting to get a nicer camera to try and shoot skating. But even at that moment I wasn’t thinking like, “I want to be a skate photographer.” I just wanted to be a good photographer, shoot anything and everything, and be a skater.
Yeah you like, really skate man. How?
I mean, I’ve been a skater all my life and then moving to California and doing the whole skate magazine thing, I kind of mentally got in the zone of “I’m the photographer now.” I would come home after work, and I wouldn’t go out on the weekends cause I had new babies to help raise. Going to work at
Transworld
and having a private skatepark I realized I could go skate at lunch and then go home and be with my family. I could still learn shit, and I was pushing myself to get back to where I was when I was twenty, or even better! I knew the park wasn’t going to last forever, so I needed to start skating on the weekends and get back into skating on my own time. When my responsibility at home loosened up, I was like, I’m back in these streets baby! I’ve skated every day almost, multiple times a day in the past few years and it’s blown my mind. I’m 47 now, and I think I skate better than I ever have in my life.
So let’s go back to high school, did you ever make zines or anything like that yourself?
Nah I never did zine stuff, I sang in punk bands, and we would make fliers and posters but I never got into making skate zines. I was all about that world, so I was always around them but I never thought about making that stuff on my own.
And you were deep in the punk scene, touring and all that shit right?
Oh yeah we toured all around the country. We would always drive up to Detroit, Cleveland, and Dayton and do all these festivals and stuff in the mid 90’s, playing with all the biggest hardcore bands of that era. It was awesome at the time, and it’s still awesome looking back on it. I still love that shit! I love all those bands and I can still listen to them all the time and feel what I felt when I first heard them.
Do you remember the first money you got from the skate industry?
Yes, I was just talking about this the other day actually. So driving to the Santa Ana airport there’s a Boomers, which is like a gaming, putt-putt place or whatever. They decided to open up a prefab skatepark in the back, somewhere around 2000, and they wanted someone from
Skateboarder
to come down and shoot photos of the opening. Danny Way and Bucky Lasek were gonna be there! I was an unpaid intern at the time and Mike Ballard was just like “I got you a job. You get to shoot the park opening for $500.” I was like $500! I was tripping out. So he gave me his Nikon FM2, no flash cause it was a bright sunny day. He just tells me “put it at 1/500, 5.6 and you can’t brick it! Just go and shoot em.” I didn’t really have a big selection of skate photos to show, so it was really rad of him to believe in me. Even though that was a bullshit assignment, he didn’t give a shit if I blew it or not. The worst part about the story is that we gave Boomers the film right after the session so I never even saw the photos, which means to this day I still don’t know if I blew it.
Is this around the time you got involved with Jackass?
Kind of. So Ballard was friends with Jeff Tremaine and all the Big Brother guys from when he worked there and he asked me if I would be down to drive everyone around because I had a big minivan and they were working on a pilot for a show. So I went and drove them around. I was so paranoid of them because after watching the old videos and stuff, I assumed these guys were just the biggest assholes in the world. I figured they’d probably kick me in the nuts or something, but they were all just super nice. I was expecting the worst because I was just some random redneck.
But you were the redneck with the minivan!
Exactly. So Mike Ballard had this big argument with Jeff Tremaine that day and just stormed off and left me with all of them. Jeff was just like, “Hey we need help, if you don’t have anything going on right now…” So I just picked up the video camera that Ballard left behind and just filmed the rest of the day, and from that moment it was on. I became one of the filmers for the first season of Jackass. It totally just fell in my lap!
When did you come back to magazines after Jackass?
One night Ballard hits me up “Hey man, I’m leaving
Skateboarder
, but Meza wants to hire you as my replacement as the photo editor.” He was never really in the office doing photo editing anyway. He was out in the streets, shooting, conceptualizing ideas and stuff, and Meza needed someone in the office, being there to help out. I didn’t think twice about it, I just said yes immediately. I was working on a damn TV show. I was just promoted to associate producer, I was moving up in that little realm, but I wanted to be a part of skateboarding so badly. I would edit the photos, but I would also just help Meza with anything and everything. That started in October of 2000. So within one year of moving to LA I had interned at
Skateboarder
, worked on the first two seasons of Jackass, became associate producer, then became photo editor, and I met my wife-to-be the week before starting. I was like, “This place is magic!”
California dream man. How quickly did you go from photo editor to editor?
So I worked for a couple of years under Aaron Meza which was awesome, those issues were super fun. Then he left to go work at Girl and a lot of the other photographers left. Mackenzie Eisenhower was a writer there, he had left. I made a few issues where it was straight up just me and Donny Miller, the art director. I knew enough of how to make the magazine work so I just kept moving with it until we got a new boss. That new boss decided to get a new editor so we got Brian Peach, who was the editor for SBC Magazine in Canada and I got a raise to Creative Director. Brian was only there two years and then he left and we were looking for another editor. I was like, “I pretty much have been making this magazine, working with photographers, doing the articles, all this shit, can I just be the editor?”
You were with
Skateboarder
for over a decade right?
Yeah I started working there in 2000, became editor in 2007 and went all the way to 2013.
And then
Transworld
bought
Skateboarder
, do I have that right?
Skateboarder
bought
Transworld
actually. So the parent company that owned
Skateboarder
purchased all the
Transworld
titles and brought them in house, so there were a whole lot of duplicate titles they had to shut down. Whatever was going on at the time with them,
Transworld
still had a huge following, were really popular, and had huge subscriptions, so
Skateboarder
was done. My boss told me on Friday that they were going to be shutting the mag down that coming Monday, just as a little heads up respect thing. They shut us down after the weekend, but because we had an issue printing, and still needed to fulfill the advertiser needs, they kept us on payroll for two months in order to get that work done. But the mag was officially dead.
But then you get the editor job at
Transworld
. Was it basically the same shit?
The biggest difference was over the last couple years at
Skateboarder
, we were struggling. We went bi-monthly, then it shifted so we had to think digital first, and print the mag on the backend. My brain was going crazy trying to figure out digital versions of photos, how to make animated gifs, and all that stuff. Then I get to
Transworld
and it’s like you gotta jump back into the crazy monthly deadlines.
Were you guys still packed with advertisers?
It was still doing really good business wise, but it went down fast. They were already going down from where they once were, but it was still way more money than
Skateboarder
was pulling in at that time. Every year after that it was fucking nosediving straight down though. We had to do cuts, and layoff all the photographers through the years, layoff writers. You could see the writing on the wall. I was telling everyone there “We know this isn’t going to last forever, right?” We could all see it, literally, the thickness of the magazines getting skinnier each issue. That’s not a good sign!
Did you feel like at the end of
Transworld
you were trying new things, seeing if anything could stick as far as keeping a print medium going?
It was desperation and it sucked. I hated that feeling. It was just, work with anyone that had money, really just do anything editorially to hopefully keep us going. Because you’d always just hope to get through the bad part and there’d be sunny days ahead. The desperation was the worst part.
Was the beef between
Transworld
and
Thrasher
real at the end, or was it just leaned into for competitions sake?
It was manufactured to an extent, but it was also definitely real. Grant Brittain has told me stories of going and shooting up in Norcal in the ‘80’s and getting vibed out and shit. But Thrasher came out and they were punk rock as fuck and were all about the culture, trying to save skateboarding, doing it for the skaters. I went back and read some old
Transworlds
and I was embarrassed. It was just so corny, like “we don’t want to be mean to people!” So they really did set themselves up to be made fun of, but that’s what drove me crazy once I got to
Transworld
, like those days are over. We were just skaters making a mag. There was for sure something there in the ‘80’s with that beef. But that was all well before our times at the mag though. As far as we were concerned we didn’t give a shit.
Why do you think they survived when all these other magazines were dying out?
T-shirts. Every kid in America was buying a
Thrasher
shirt, right? That’s just a fact. So if they didn’t have that they would have felt everything that every other skate mag felt. They would have gone down in page count, in frequency, they would’ve had to! But they fucking crushed it with their logo and that gave them a cushion for sure. When you’ve got all that money from t-shirt sales then you can pay the best prices for all the video content. I mean they had the juice already. Everybody was all on it and the web was crushing it with all the exclusive video parts. It was just the perfect storm of all that shit that just kept them from having to go through the same shit all of us had to go through.
Big Brother
,
Strength
,
Skateboarder
,
Skateboard Mag
, all of them.
We started in 2010 and back then there was still a lot of diversity in the print game and now there are very few magazines, so what’s your take on skate media as a whole currently?
I love that there is still an outlet for everything outside of
Thrasher
. It’s still the dominant one, but obviously not everyone wants it to be the only one. I’m sure they don’t want to be the only one! They can’t handle everything with how much skating is going on in the world. I like how there’s niche stuff where everybody has something they can focus on and dive deeper into something than what the big mainstream mags can do. I’m stoked to be a part of that, and to be kind of in that realm of a new, independent part of the skate media realm.
What’s the deal with
Closer
, it’s quarterly right?
Yeah the idea is to do four mags a year, and try to grow to a big audience of subscribers. I don’t feel the need for it to be another
Skateboarder
or
Transworld
, I just want it to be a well respected media outlet.
I feel like it’s nostalgia-driven, would you agree?
Yeah the idea is I want it to be like a life-long skater’s brain in print. All these random images through the years that you think about, that bring you joy when you think about the first time you saw them. Sometimes those might pop up in the mag, but I just want it to be rad skateboarding. So down the road some issues might be 90% new shit, or some might be this huge idea for this old nostalgia thing. I always want it to be mixed and never be just one or the other. There’s a lot of nostalgia in that first issue, because that is the main audience I’m going for, kind of that older skater that can relate to that, and want to help fund that!
Would you say you are more hyped on the past of skating or the future of it?
I think both. Obviously nostalgia for the past of what we lived through and skated through to get to where we are. But I’m also very excited for the future because I want to be a part of the chain of skateboarding history that helps remind people where we came from and why it’s so fucking rad now. You know, if you don’t know where you came from then where are you going?
And so you believe printing it is the right way to solidify the history?
Exactly, it being in print makes it not as easy to be lost in the digital world.
That’s why I was really excited to see
Chromeball
working with you, because he’s probably the best interviewer of all time.
He has so much knowledge, and he cares so much about the fine details of skate history. He’s built his own following and his own cult status as a skate historian and lover, and doing all that shit for free. He’s a good friend of mine and I’m super stoked that he would honor me by giving me the chance to use his stuff.
It’s just you two?
It’s me doing all the stuff, Sammy Spiteri doing the layout, my friend Kim Stravers does the copyediting, Brian Blakely from
Skateboarder
and
Transworld
, super rad kid. He helps out and just looks over everything as a side gig to make sure nothing super wonky is wrong. Farran Golding has been a huge help with interviews as well. But for the most part it’s me and Sammy, then working with Chromeball and all the photographers.
What’s your least favorite task of being editor?
Probably just shutting down ideas or photos from people that are so psyched on it. I’ve tried to do it in a very respectful way over the years. A lot of people just want to hear something, you just can’t leave people hanging. The worst thing is just to not reply.
Any last words or pieces of advice for a teenager reading this?
Fuck, I mean if a teenager is reading this old mans interview then I’m fucking hyped! I’d just say skateboarding will keep you young forever and that’s what’s so magical about it. I appreciate you guys giving me this chance because I’ve never thought of myself as anything in skateboarding, or that it owed me anything. I’m just stoked to be here, stoked to skate with you guys and meet so many new people. Still doing it at this time in my life is so cool.

================================================================================

What you been up to today?
A lot of everything. Just moved back to Michigan, so that’s been interesting and cold. But way less stressful and actually a bit more fun I think. And cheaper, close to the east coast. It’s good man.
So that’s why you moved back there?
Yeah, I mean there’s more to it. It was a number of things. I’d say one was living in California, it gave me a false sense of security, you know? I felt like being out there I would be closer to companies and I just felt like it’d make everything feel easier. And maybe I felt a little more important cause I was out there going to meetings, doing all these things, which was cool but the reality is that’s not necessarily where I need to be. Inside companies people change positions, and my position doesn’t change, so sometimes being in California would be beneficial, sometimes it’s less beneficial, and then I just remember how I built my skate career without living in California. So I found myself thinking I’d be traveling less, but the reality is I needed to travel more, and then the housing prices went up way high by me, so I knew I could sell my house and make a bunch of money. I wanted to be back closer to Chicago, Philly, and New York, you know this resurgence on East Coast, this ’90s comeback and all that kind of stuff. So I said fuck it, just move back to Michigan where we’re from, and it’s kinda the epicenter, only an hour flight to Philly, hour to NY, 20 minute flight to Chicago, family and friends, cheaper properties, no emissions, no inspections. It’s just a win-win. But I forgot that winters are fucking cold dude. But you know, it gives my body a chance to heal since I’m not as active and I’m not skating as much, actually started feeling physically better.
How did the Sabotage 4 part end up happening?
That was because of Brian Penny in Philly, he really wanted me to be a part of it. He wanted me to come out to Philly, but I was so busy in California that I couldn’t get myself out there, so he was like, ‘fuck it, I’m flying out for a week.’ We’d just film some stuff at JKwon, and when you get something you get something. We just went to JKwon on a couple of Sundays, and then there was some stuff from a Chicago trip. I look at it like they blessed me with a part cause those are young guys doing their thing. I wasn’t necessarily a part of their scene, but they always included me whether it was supporting the companies I skated for or wearing the gear, I don’t know. They always showed mad love, so for them to want me in their video was cool. It was a blessing for me.
Favorite plaza that’s still skateable?
Worldwide? I think my favorite plaza worldwide is Stalin Plaza. It’s in Prague, that place looks unbelievable. I used to keep in contact with the generation of skaters before the ones there now, and then now with the kids who are up there representing now. I gotta get out there cause that place is unreal. My favorite plaza in the US is probably Muni in Philly. That shit’s a lot of fun. I skated there quite a bit when I moved back last fall. I’ll be out there all summer.
Least favorite thing to skate?
Stairs and handrails because my feet hurt all the time, ever since I was young. I broke my left foot, my right ankle, and then my left ankle. Ever since then they just hurt and I get heal bruises really easily. I don’t like jumping down shit. I can’t really skate handrails that good unless they’re kinda tall, but I can’t do long ones because I end up just being straight leg. I was never good at that shit, same with manuals.
Do you remember the first ad you had?
I do. It was an Invisible ad, I was on an Invisible tour. I think it was in Kentucky. We skated this little concrete plaza and I was doing back tail on the bench. They got a photo and that ended up being my first ad.
What magazine?
I’m not sure, it might have went across them all.
Do you still watch mad skating?
Yeah I do. I get overloaded when I’m on Instagram, man it’s hard to keep up with everything on there. Just sitting on the shitter I’ll go through the explore page and see people do the most insane shit. The things that get me are the small projects. Take Strobeck for example, he comes out with these cool little projects and nicknames them whatever. I really like watching that stuff, it’s more like art. It’s not just a random video part, not just random tricks, it’s something that’s been thought about and put together. That shit is really dope.
How do you think being a pro skater now is different than when you started? When did you go pro?
I don’t know, maybe ’97? It’s hard for me to really gauge the differences because if I were just turning pro now and 18 years old, I’d probably be super stoked and it’d be like a crazy achievement. Just like it felt when it happened to me back in the day. Being older and watching kids turn pro, it seems a little different. The whole game is just different, has a different feel to it, but I think it’s just era-based things. Kids weren’t really getting dropped off at skateparks in my era. Skateboarding is so accepted now by parents and family, whereas back in the day we were all, for the most part, outcasts and outsiders being called ‘skater fags,’ you know? It was just so different. Now it’s not frowned upon. It’s just a part of life, it’s about to be in the Olympics. It’s damn near accepted, so the feelings are different. I think there’s always gonna be the underground culture of it and a mainstream side to it. Because there’s property damage and trespassing and all those things it’ll never be fully accepted. It’s always like a ‘I love it, but not in my backyard’ type of mentality. So you’re always gonna have the underground, it’s like graffiti writing, it’s like hip hop, it’s all the same. It’s all culture-based, and it’s up to you to decide which side of the fence you want to be on.
You ever get caught at Love? Or what was the most trouble you got in?
Nah, I never really got in too much trouble. I never really got caught there. I mean, I got caught a couple times, but by that time I had already laid the groundwork on making deals with the cops and stuff like that. If a cop I didn’t recognize busted me, when I gave him my ID he would recognize my name and be like, ”˜oh go ahead and go that way,’ cause he knew that I took care of his buddies. They all wanted shoes and shit like that. I never really had too big a problem though. I saw some crazy shit, I saw cops breaking legs jumping off walls trying to catch skaters, I saw cops pulling guns on skaters, a bunch of wild stuff. For me personally, I got over the running shit after a while, when I wasn’t skating I’d just throw my board up in the tree. I was there as a non-skater in their eyes. I never really got arrested for skating in Philly, no tickets, no nothing. I know kids that got caught and they’d take them down in the train station where cops would smack em up a bit, or take their money. That was a different age too man. In Chicago I got in trouble all the time for skating, they’d put you in the paddy wagon, drive you down to the south side, dropping you off in the hope you would get beat up or something. SF, I was punched in the face by a cop while I was handcuffed to a bench, and taken to jail, but every single time in any other city I got busted in for skating, as soon as you got to court they would throw it out. Never did I have issues after I went to court. But Philly, I never got caught up in Philly. They got me on tax bullshit later. They actually extorted me, it was fucking crazy, but that’s another story.
How did you get into Philly street racing?
I don’t know, I remember I had a little shitty Honda Accord and I would race anyone on the freeway, but it wasn’t even about how fast your car was, it was about how gnarly you wanted to get cutting in between cars. I don’t even remember, I just started going to the street races so I would skate all day and then almost every night I would go down to South Philly and kick it with all the street racer guys. As time went on my cars got better and faster. It’s kinda similar to skating, you get kicked out, you run from the cops, you earn your stripes, you gain respect. Next thing you know you’re hanging out and someone wants to race you, and you’re like ”˜nah, you gotta go race those four cars first, and if you beat those guys then I’ll race you.’ I seen some wild shit down there. I seen people get killed, people flipping cars, all kinds of shit. That shit was fun.
Did cops bust that shit?
Oh yes dude. You know, I got luck on my side with that shit because we outran cops on the freeways to the point we would exit cause we had helicopters chasing us. Park in the Home Depot parking lot and walk through the Home Depot. I had my car full, KT was in there, Gee was in there, my little brother racing down Market. Doing 140 mph past Drexel and cops fucking coming out doing burnouts, coming after you and getting caught, guns put in faces. Somehow I got out of all that shit. I don’t know, maybe I’m good with the verbals, but the racing shit was out of control for a few years.
You ever do minimum wage jobs or did you just skate?
Nah, I’ve had some jobs. I was a dishwasher for two days and I quit. I was a busboy at this other restaurant for a couple months and I quit. I worked at Taco Bueno in Dallas for a month and quit. I just never could do it cause I realized I was working like 8 hours a day and it was $7 an hour back then. I kept thinking, ”˜for what?’ When I was hungry I would go to one of the buffets, and when someone was done eating their plate they would leave it on the table, we would post up and wait for a family to leave and then would take their dirty plates and go right up to the buffet. I constantly had some weird hustle on how to eat, or we would got to 711 at 2am when they would change the hotdogs to eat the ones they didn’t sell. I had ways to eat, it wasn’t too hard to figure out. Then for extra money we would just do a little hustling here and there, no selling drugs, but we would come up on things and sell them. I had a two bedroom apartment and I would have like, four roommates, and we would just figure it out. I never held a job because the small money didn’t really help for all the time it was taking to make. On the flip side, I’ve been getting free skateboards since I was maybe 16 years old. I always had some kind of product to sell. I would go down to a spot and sell a board for $25. When I was living in SF Alien Workshop was paying me $250 a month, but they sent me tons of product, and I’d take that shit down to Pier 7 and sell a couple boards, I would go to FTC and sell some wheels. I was constantly moving stuff too, so I was always able to put money in my pocket. It was the most fun part of my life, that whole deal. There was no dreams of being a pro skater, just hanging out with other skaters that were in the same situation as me. We’re all high school dropouts, we all did our little hustles and tried to have fun, get a ride to the spot or whatever it was, it was fun.
You ever get any cool presents from sponsors?
At one point DC would give Christmas bonuses. I think I got an iPod one time.
You never asked for nothing, like ”˜I need a whip with this contract’?
Nah, to be honest this might sound soft, but every contract I do I feel like it’s a blessing, and I never want to overstep because there are also certain expectations that can come along with a lot of stuff demanded. So what I bring to the table is like, ”˜look, this is me, you guys know me.’ I’m gonna do it regardless cause it’s the only thing I know how to do. But nah, I don’t need the extra obligations for that. I don’t even know if people do that. I mean, I’ve got a DC diamond ring, I’ve got a DGK diamond ring, those things that they gave out for the team, yeah that stuff’s cool. DGK gave me one of the skateboard chairs made out of Kalis boards.
Where do you have tiles from? Just Love?
Just Love and Sants, but honestly I lost that shit in the move. What I do have is two city hall benches that are currently in San Diego, but ths spring they’re getting shipped to Michigan. I’m gonna put em in our little DIY spot. One of them will be set up normal but the other one I’m gonna flip on it’s side and incorporate as a flat bar. It’s gonna be badass. I don’t know if you remember the Subzero video, Freddy does a switch flip down the 5 and then does a switch frontside blunt on the bench, but I got that. I have the the switch front blunt bench.
Back noseblunt or switch back tail?
I think switch back tail feels better.
What’s up with Blabac?
I’ll say that I’m super hyped that we actually have a story that a lot of people don’t have. I randomly met him back in Michigan when I was like 14 years old. Ten years later we re-link in SF without even really remembering. At least I didn’t, he has a better memory than me, but to link back up and end up working for the same company, helping to build something like DC for so long. That story to me is insane. I will tell you what, that dude is in my opinion one of the hardest working dudes I’ve ever met in my entire life. Not only is he out shooting the photos and being the eyeball for branding, but also going to the marketing meetings. He’s trying to explain to people how things work and doing non-skate stuff like Ford commercials and all this other bullshit that he does, and his family life and his kids. I don’t know how he keeps his shit together man. He does a lot of stuff. I give Blabac the utmost respect at all times.
Do you ever feel like people are biting your style? Like the clothes or trying to copy skate style?
Nah, I appreciate it so much because these new guys are showing so much love and so much respect, I can’t do nothing but support them. It’s helped me with longevity, and if it wasn’t for a lot of the guys on the East Coast or in London, maybe some pockets in Japan, it’d be tough for me right now. I’d be like ”˜what’s the next move? What am I gonna do?’ But what it’s done is open up a door, a whole new door for me to be there and support, almost give back, I get to give back. It’s hard to explain, it definitely helps me out so I can’t do nothing but respect that. It’s kinda like hip hop, people are getting tired of hearing the mumble raps and stuff like that. They’re bringing it back to to a culture-based type of deal, and giving LL Cool J radio shows on Sirius. It’s like 360 degrees. I’m glad these guys get to be a part of something I was a part of because that shit was dying, that whole culture side of it was dying, and these guys took it upon themselves to bring that back to life. I’m just lucky that they’re using a part of skating that I was a part of.
If you could have any super power, what would you have?
Probably to fly. That’d be badass if you could fly. Might be cold up there, but I’d be down. What would you do?
I don’t know, probably straight teleport.
That’s a super power? Alright, well, Batman or Superman?
Superman, he can fly.
Yeah, but Batman’s pretty sick. My chick would hate on you so hard for picking Superman.
Anything you’d want to see happen to skating in the future, or don’t want to see?
I think skateboarding in general is always gonna be roughly the same as it’s always been, but the way you see it may change. You know, Instagram changes heavily, the magazines aren’t there anymore. I kind of look at it like less is more now. I pay attention, but it’s kinda fucks with me when I pay too much attention cause I see too much of it and my mind gets all tangled up. It’s hard to decipher what I like and what I don’t like, just trying to let skateboarding live. From a business side, I would like the industry to figure out how more skaters can make better money because I feel like in the late ”˜90s and early 2000s there were more skateboarders that made better money whereas now the gap is bigger. There’s only a handful of people that make a few, couple hundred grand a year, and then there’s a whole fucking ton of them that only make a couple thousand bucks a month. I don’t know, that might just have something to do with society in general, because I think that gap is doing the same thing in the regular people’s world. I remember you had tons of people that had pro shoes and pro boards, and you walk into the skate shop and there were 30-40 different shoes. Now you walk into a shop and see lots of different colorways and stuff like that. I don’t really see progression on that side of it, and that was a lot of bread for people. I think a lot of people might be missing out on legacies, not the DC legacy, but you know, when you’re done skating what you get to look back on. That’s what I miss.

================================================================================

Interview by Joe Castrucci
I honestly don’t know your real full name. What is it, and how did you get such a good nickname?
My real name is Jose Abraham Batrez, the nickname came from there being to many Joe’s in Columbus, Ohio. There were literally five of us at an indoor skate park and someone yelled “Joe” across the park, and we all looked. That day my other friend Joe nominated me for the nickname, and it ended up being Chow.
It’s a pretty good name I’m not
going to lie. You got lucky.
Yeah, my family thinks I live a different life in Columbus with my friends. Why are there so many Joes in Ohio?
Maybe it’s a Catholic thing. Anyways you are a young kid, and no one knows who you are, so I feel like we can ask these easy questions. How did you end up skating in Ohio?
I got my first board in Willard, Ohio when I was four, I stole it from this neighbor kid named Butch. He swung a fishing pole at me and caught me with the hook. So when he got called inside, I walked over and took it. It just started from there, just sliding around on it. Then after a few years, I started to learn some basics in the driveway or my local park.
How long did you live there?
I was born there and then when I was nine my mom and I moved to L.A. I remember we got a ride to Arkansas and we were supposed to get on a plane, but I was so scared I convinced my mom not to get on, so we had to hop on a greyhound, and it took three days. I don’t know what I was on, I was just so scared to ride on a plane. Then my mom and I have moved back and forth from Ohio to L.A. a bunch of times.
Woah so you move around a lot. Was your mom with you all those times or were you by yourself trying to finish school hopping back and forth?
There were some times towards the end of high school I lived with friends I met through skating. My mom moved back to LA once and I wanted to stay here in Columbus. She left me her car for some reason, and I had nowhere to stay so I was on Ohio State campus with all my belongings. Just crashing at a friends and watching my car through the window making sure no one took my things.
Haha, so you were 16 then.
Yeah 16 about to turn 17.
Chow the drifter. Did you ever skate Dodge skatepark? In your time it’s probably been bad right?
It’s always been pretty beat but they just re-did the whole thing. Looks pretty good now. We could have skated it for the first time today but it’s raining out.
What are the parks where you met a bunch of these guys in Columbus?
Most of that happened at our local indoor park “Skate Naked” and then Dublin skatepark. I put my mom through it driving me over there every day when we were living here. So, all my good friends I have now are from that area
Is this where the Embassy skate shop connection comes in?
That was right when I turned 14, I got invited to go skate Cincinnati. I bs heelflipped a flat gap. Justin Henry and Dakota Mullins were there. I got to get a clip and then a photo with Dakota. Andy Licardi pulled up and I found out about him working for Habitat. I was hyped! That was my intro to Embassy and Habitat. I just recently turned 18, so that wasn’t even long ago. Everything has just kept connecting after that point.
What is it like trying to skate and film in Ohio? Is it hard trying to get out in a smaller city like Columbus?
It can be hard. Everyone has a life outside of skating here. It can suck a lot of times getting someone to skate with me or go film because people have jobs here. It’s not like the true East or West Coast where everyone’s mission every day is to go out and get clips. We are working on it though.
Plans on moving anytime soon?
Just trying to save money and get over to Philly. I really like skating the spots out there and how productive everyone is. I stayed with Dakota for a week, and we just went out every day on a mission along with some other Muni heads. They really kept the energy up. Even when you thought it was over for the day, Joey Marrone was bringing out his lights and generator.
What was your first introduction skate video?
I used to watch this Gatorade video featuring Sean Malto and Chaz Ortiz on Youtube. My friend and I liked the song in it and it’s just Chaz and Sean leaving their high school pushing around. It’s funny.
Ok last one. What you are working on and who you are riding for?
I’m trying to start this Habitat part to have come out next summer. Thank you to Embassy, Habitat, and New Balance.

================================================================================

Previous Sponsors?…..TRUE / FALSE:
Natural Koncepts, I-Path, Tensor, Satori, Ninja Bearings, Ollie-Pop, November Clothing
.
Some of that is true but mostly false haha. When I was about 15, Phase 2 Skate Shop flowed me boards from Natural Koncepts . At that time I was also getting ninja bearings . I-path was a dream sponsor haha! The rest of those brands however I never got anything from.
Name a skater that people would be surprised you like?
Most people find Nyjah to be pretty wack. But the fact that he can grind any waxed handrail in women’s leggings is amazing!
What skill set or style of skating do you wish you could have?
I wish I was able to skate like Daewon Song!. The ability he has on a board is like no one else on the planet. I’ve always wanted to be able to piece together combos like he can.
People wouldn’t believe this….but…
I never went to college but a photo that my friend Josh Ellis shot of me, was purchased by MIT to be used as a mural on their campus. So now I can say I was a part of an Ivy League school.
You’ve been going on some trips with the Strangelove crew. Any memorable locations, spots, or things you were surprised to learn?
Becoming a part of Strangelove has been an amazing time. The whole squad of dudes involved absolutely rules! At the beginning of this year before all the crazy covid madness really set in we went to San Francisco for a week long getaway. That trip was insane. We went there to film for the Nike Strangelove dunk. We got to skate a lot of spots I grew up seeing in videos.
Unfortunately there was an ice rink at EMB so I didn’t get to skate there. Ran into Elissa Steamer, it was hard not to fan out in front of her! The hills out there are no joke. Much respect to all the hill bombers out there.
Was it really your first trip to CA ever?
Yes that was my first time in California.I’ve been all over the country, but for some reason never was able to make it to California before that trip. Between the incredible food, skate spots, and gorgeous women, I most definitely plan on returning!
Why do they call you HANK?
The nickname “HANK” stems from the beautiful flip phone era. My friend was trying to text me “do you have any ganja?” But the phone autocorrected ganja to hank. At the time I was very much a stoner, so everyone just started to call me Hank! That was about 10 years ago haha .
What’s something people need to know about Milwaukee Skateboarding?
I feel like most people don’t even know where Milwaukee is. The skate scene here has been going strong since the early ’80s. Quite a few pretty heavy hitting pros are originally from Milwaukee. Also one of the first skateboarding websites came out of here. It’s called WISKATE.COM. Started in 1998 and is still going strong!
How important is a good shop to a great scene?
I feel like having a good shop is the most important thing for a skate scene to grow. When I was a kid I would skate to the shop to watch all the new videos and try to learn as much I could from the older dudes who I still look up to and skate with to this day. I feel very fortunate that I have the best shop and the best park in the world that have my back. Sky High Skate Shop and Cream City Skate Park, I owe so much to Both Aaron Polansky and Bill Kaschner.
Any good Lutzka stories?
Back when I was around 12 years old the first indoor park in Milwaukee had opened up. I had never skated an indoor park before so it was a dream come true. I remember the first time I saw Greg lutzka skate it was insane, he would just fly around the course landing every trick he tried! He was a few years older than me and I remember he would always be smoking weed in his car with dudes. I would always try and sneak into that car but he never let me haha.
Rapid Fire Elimination lightning round questions.
Wallrides. Frontside or Backside?
Frontside to backside.
Horniest Movie?
Hotdog
Internet or Fax Machine?
Fax machine
MySpace or Facebook?
MySpace
Bong Rips or Blunts?
Apples
Vape or Scooter?
Vape while scootering
Rodney VS Daewon
Daewon of course.
Octopus or Squid?
Octopus.
PIZZY or Mikey
?
That’s like asking if you love your mom or dad more. Can’t be answered. I choose both!
Favorite Conspiracy theory?
Do aliens exist?
Weed or Beer?
50/50
Milwaukee’s best kept secret?
The legend of teddy kohl’s!
Favorite Skate Video quote?
“Chill out, have a fucking bagel alright cat“- Harold Hunter eastern exposure.
Thank You’s and F U’s
?
Much love to Mom, Dad, Caitlin, Alissa, Ryan, all my close friends. Bradford Bishop for shooting photos, Pizzy / Gabe for filming. Josh Ellis, Bill Kaschner, Aaron Polansky, Sean and Nick at Strangelove, Rob Sissi and Dave Ruta at Nike. Too many to list! Fuck you to racism! Fuck you to trump!

================================================================================

From the melancholy tunes of Woody Guthrie to the upbeat hits of Tomoko Aran, ScumCo pro Ty Beall’s mixtape leads us on a musical adventure through the ages.
Simply put, Ty is an east coast legend and has released over 10 parts in the last decade and a half. That’s a lot of time spent in front of the lens.
He was kind enough to answer a few questions I had and fill me in on some details about the mixtape.
What’s up Ty? Hope you’ve been staying safe during these crazy times! What’s a song that’s been on repeat for you during this lockdown?
Akon – Locked up.
2015 was the year of TVZ for your skating. Was there any reason in particular that both parts you dropped that year had Townes Van Zandt songs in the edit? Any TVZ deep cuts you recommend?
At that time in my life I just really liked Townes and I just couldn’t think of anything else to skate to. I’m constantly going through different phases with what music I listen to and there’s no rhyme or reason to any of it. My friend Jordan Bradshaw put me on to him years before and I just couldn’t not listen to it so it only made sense to use it in the parts. He also skated to a Townes song in the past and that was a big motivator because he’s always been one of my favorite skateboarders. As far as songs I would recommend, I kind of like the less played Townes songs, not the more emotional ones. Specific ones I can pick out would be Nine Pound Hammer, Wabash Cannonball, Racing in the Streets, Mr Mudd and Mr Gold, and Coo coo.
The track from your “Nightmarevan” part takes a step away from the rest of the tracks on this mixtape. How’d you find that Tomoko Aran song?
That was a serious effort. I probably sent Will like 300 songs, every genre. A big part of skating to something different was that I didn’t want to just put out another part with the exact same feel. I wanted it to feel like something new. I was also going through a pretty serious injury and dealing with mental issues from that so I spent a lot of time looking for new music and exploring different genres.
What’s up with that Andrew Bird song at the end of your “This Machine Kills Fascists” part? How’d that one get in the edit?
That part was actually edited by Kevin Odell, the one who made the video. He did a great job at making that video, but I had no part in the songs. I don’t know who Andrew Bird is.
Is there any one song in particular that comes to mind when looking back on all the parts you’ve put out? One that holds a special place in your heart?
They all come from different phases and all the different places I’ve been in throughout my life so they are all special to me to an extent. It’s hard to say what the favorite would be, but I would say the part I felt happened the most organically and easily was Gospel. That song was the only one I think we were just like “Yup, this is it.” I always just go back and forth with songs until the last second and then feel like it was wrong. Maybe everyone does that?
And lastly, what’s your favorite song you’ve discovered from a skate video?
This is a really hard question. I think every skaters itunes has probably got at least 20 songs that have been in videos. I think maybe one song I could lean towards is John Cardiel Sight Unseen – Sizzla – Haunted and Nervous. That song can’t not get you fired up.
That’s what’s up, thanks Ty!
Almost every part that has a song on the mixtape is below for your viewing pleasure.
Dominion: Main Course
(2007) – Ice Cube, “Enemy”
Tomboman
(2008) – Manfred Mann, “Mighty Quinn”
Toxic Turdz
(2011) – King Khan & The Shrines, “Welfare Bread”
The Machine Kills Fascists
(2012) – Woody Guthrie, “Railroad Blues”
Cell Out
(2012) – Sam Cooke, “Chain Gang”
Venue: Old Dominion
(2013) – Smith Westerns, “Be My Girl”
“A Street”
(2014) – Adolescents, “Things Start Moving”
BRICK
(2015) – Townes Van Zandt, “Lungs” (live)
“ET”
(2015)
– Townes Van Zandt, “Dollar Bill Blues”
Venue: Gospel
(2017) – Ernest Tubb, “Saturday Satan, Sunday Saint”
NIGHTMAREVAN
(2019) – Tomoko Aran, “I’m In Love”
“BREEZY” part remix
(2020) – Cam’ron, “Cookin Up”

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller
What came first for you, a love of
skating or a love of photography?
Taking photos. I got my first camera when I was a little kid and I really enjoyed it. I was probably 10 or 11. It was somewhere in Italy, and I remember being at the zoo with my mom, taking photos of all the animals. After that, I kept taking photos for a long time until my camera broke and I had to stop for a while.
When did you start skating?
I wanted to start skating when I was young. I remember going home and telling my mom “I want a skateboard!” She told me no, unless I wore full pads. I didn’t want to do that. So basically, there were a few years after that where I didn’t skate, and at that point, I wasn’t taking photos. Both started around the same time though. I’ve always had an interest in taking photos of architecture, so skateboarding was really interesting because eventually, architecture got boring.
Tell me about the first time you shot skateboarding.
I broke my ankle and didn’t have anything to do. A friend of mine asked if I had ever shot skateboarding and encouraged me to try it. It sounded interesting. I looked at a lot of skate magazines for inspiration. Then I started going around and asking people if I could shoot them skating.
Do you think that Berlin is a good city to be productive in?
That’s a tough question. I feel more productive when I travel somewhere else, but I do like to come back to Berlin to finish the project, develop and scan my film, and put all the stuff together. But as far as creating? Most of the time that doesn’t happen for me in Berlin.
How often are you on
the road compared to at home?
It depends on how much time and money I have. I used to travel quite often. There were definitely a couple of years where I left every other month, even if it was just to go and see the homies somewhere. But during Covid I kind of had to stay in Germany. I’m still traveling at least a few times a year, and when I do it’s usually to stay for around four weeks.
Did you study photography in school?
I always was interested in studying photography, but I was also really into furniture design. When I went to university I ended up studying graphic and product design, but there were also lessons on artistic photography, where I did my best work. So, I went to study a lot, but photography was what I liked the most and where I produced my best projects. Also, with furniture design, you get to travel a lot less. I felt like photography would give me more freedom. So I started leaning more into that and finished school.
Can you tell me about the book you had published, 548 Days? It seems like you took a unique approach with how you shot the photos for it.
When I was finishing my bachelor’s degree I wanted to make my thesis a project about skateboarding and architecture, but my teachers didn’t like it and didn’t want me to do it the way I had in mind. So I submitted something else, and after I graduated I decided to keep working on my original idea of making a photo book and went traveling for six months. I went all over trying to shoot skate photos, which was pretty hard at that time. I’m not the best skater myself, which could make it hard to approach certain people. After shooting while traveling, I came back to Berlin and had to figure out how to make a book. I looked into publishing houses behind some of my favorite books and started sending them messages. One of them got back to me and was like, “Yeah, this looks nice. Maybe we can meet you for a coffee?” I ended up getting the book published. It was pretty sick. The book shows the materials that make
different spots unique and how the skater is interacting in it. I think it’s important to show people who don’t skate that skaters don’t destroy their environment, but are just finding new ways to interpret it. That’s why I wanted to give a more artistic point of view to the whole thing – not just using a fisheye to show the craziest trick. If I look at photos shot with a fisheye, they look dope, but sometimes it’s hard to tell what the spot actually looks like.
Where did you
go while you were shooting the content for the book?
It’s crazy, I don’t even remember all the places I’ve been to. I think I went to at least 20 different cities. I ended up in places where I didn’t get a single skate photo, like in Sydney for example. I was there for three weeks, but it was raining and I wasn’t able to meet people to go skate with. But then I went to the States, where I went to Seattle, San Francisco, Portland, and New York where I was able to get skate photos everywhere. And I’ve been all over the place in Europe.
Have you had a favorite city to shoot
in? What makes somewhere good for getting photos?
There are so many sick spots everywhere. I love places where I can walk around and find spots myself, and I’ll get someone to skate it. That’s basically what I did with my first book. Now it’s a little different because some people know my name, so it’s easier to hit people up to skate or get contacts to reach out to. Also, now I can show people my photos and it normally gives them a good idea of the types of spots I’m looking for. I am open to trying different things. I think my favorite types of spots have brutalist architecture, lots of shapes. I try to avoid going the classic route of shooting skate photos. I don’t think you always need to show the run up or landing, maybe just a unique perspective of the spot and the trick.
Is there anywhere on your list of places you want to travel to shoot where you haven’t been yet?
Yes, Tokyo! Going to Japan, with all of the nice tiles and architecture, where everything just looks amazing. But it’s crazy because you can’t really skate during the day. I’m curious how different that would be because I don’t usually like shooting with a flash. There I’d have to, and obviously I will. I already have a project in mind that I’d like to do once I get to Japan.
Outside of skateboarding, what are some other subjects you enjoy shooting?
I still really like shooting photos of architecture, but also lately I’ve been enjoying shooting photos of tourists in different cities, so I guess street photography. I like going to the busiest spots. It’s not really portraits. I prefer to shoot from the back, maybe if they’re wearing nice hats or outfits. You start to wonder “What have they been up to?” My new book I’m working on, which will hopefully be out by the end of the year, will have a lot of random stuff. Of course, there will be a lot of skateboarding, but also things I shot photos of while looking for spots, during travel, or on rainy days.
What’s your
camera set up?
I am mostly using my Canon A-1, with different lenses. I love switching between 35, 50, and 17mm. It’s always different. I just came back from Paris, and I shot an entire roll of film with my 17mm lens, which is basically a wide-angle, of tourists in front of the Eiffel Tower.
Where can people see your work
?
You can check it out either on Instagram or on my website delacharles.com.
Who are some of your photography inspirations?
I really love Martin Parr’s photos. He has great style. He uses flash a lot and his photos are really colorful. I don’t really like shooting that way myself, but I really like to look at how he does it. There’s a lot of people whose work I like, but a lot of it isn’t skate photography.
Last question. Best place to get a beer in Berlin?
Any Späti.

================================================================================

You just got back from Mexico right?
Yeah we were on a film trip, we actually drove down to Cabo from L.A. I was only there for the first half. There’s still people there and there’s more people flying in and stuff like that. But that was like the second time we’ve been there this year, just driving around baja. Pretty rad out there for sure.
Were you off roading and shit?
Yeah I mean the highway is pretty sketchy and there’s parts where the highway just turns into a dirt road for a little stretch or something like that, but it’s not too much. But it’s basically like a two-lane road whole way down there.
You weren’t doing skate shit? That was just some other photography job?
No, no that was like a Girl/Chocolate/Lakai filming trip basically. It was sick. I’m definitely a little nervous around cops down there and stuff, but there’s a lot of spots, you can find a lot of shit.
You ever do photo work that’s not skating? Or has skating always been the main thing?
Well I mean I kind of started doing little things here and there in the last couple of years, but up until like two years ago I did nothing except shoot skating, and now I’m starting to try to learn how to do some other things. But it’s like the equivalent of starting to shoot skating again, just you know doing different kinds of stuff and navigating a different world.
Dealing with non-skaters.
Yeah, exactly. It’s like learning how to talk again almost. (laughs) But yeah for the longest time I just shot skating.
So how exactly did you get into photography?
Well, I probably started in high school. My dad was always pretty into photography, so I’m sure he kind of like pushed towards that or whatever. But I started taking classes in high school and that’s probably where I first started learning how to develop film and just taking pictures. And then I went to art school after high school and I went ip there for painting originally, but I changed it up pretty quickly and started focusing on photography.
So you can paint?
Uhh, no not really. I’m terrible actually. I haven’t tried in like probably twenty years or so by no, but I am definitely not that good. It just kind of transitioned into photography and then I got really into it at that point.
What do thing about art school, or just school in general? Do you think it helped you?
I don’t know man, I mean there was definitely positives about it you know, like people I met and teachers I met. I feel like I learned about photo history and a lot of artists that way, but the school I went to was really fine arts based, and I feel like almost all the technical stuff I’ve learned has been through shooting skating. It seems like it’s something where unless you want to be like a “fine-arts person” I don’t know how important it really is. It seems like if you just want to spend your money on equipment and go assist somebody instead, you might be better off. It depends on the person probably. I definitely don’t regret it or anything.
Alright, so whats the most stairs you’ve ever ollied.
Haha! I guess probably like four. Not very many. I was never much of a jumper at all. I like that Quartersnacks shirt, where it says “if you can’t ollie up it, don’t ollie down it.”
And yr out in LA now? How’d that happen?
Well I’ve actually moved here twice. I was living out in Boston and Joey Pepper, who was my roommate at the time, I think he was on Aesthetics at that point and they kind of wanted him to come out. And I was working for Skateboarder, and those guys were kind of like “you need to come out.” And we were just like why not, lets just try it and see how it goes. That was around 2002 and I was out here for like four years that time and then I moved back to New York for like a year and a half, and then I moved back out here again.
What’s the most times you’ve gone to one spot to shoot a trick?
Oh god”¦. that’s a tough one, but it’s gotta be at least six I’d say. I feel like lately that’s been happening for a couple tricks. It could be more, but I think six is a good number.  Yeah I mean sometimes it takes ten minutes, and sometimes it takes ten visits. It’s different every time for sure.
You ever have to tell the homie to stop?
Haha, I don’t know if I’ve said anything that specific but there’s times where I’ve definitely been like, you know we can come back”¦ It doesn’t have to happen you know, when someones really losing it in a really long battle. But I don’t think I’ve ever really told anybody that I don’t think they can do it, I don’t know how well that would go over, haha.
Ever had dudes bummed you were taking photos of them?
I think probably when i worked for the magazine there were times when I would just get sent out to go shoot some guy I had never met. and I feel like that’s a little awkward when you don’t even know each other, and same for the skater. So maybe the vibe wasn’t great, but nothing ever serious.
Have you ever been threatened with a weapon?
Honestly the only thing that comes to mind is one time a couple years ago a cop came in really hot at as with his gun drawn and had us all lay face down on the ground…
Just for skating!?
Just for skating, and that was lame, but that was the only time. It was some rookie and we were in a pretty bad neighborhood and I think he was just scared or something. It was pretty gnarly.
Not surprised that the only person that’s pulled a weapon on you is a cop.
It was kind of sketchier to me in some ways, cops are sketchy man. I don’t trust that dude with a gun more than I trust anyone else.
Whats the shittiest job you’ve ever had to work?
Honestly I had a stretch where i was between jobs in Boston and I was just pretty desperate for anything. We were at the mall and I saw that place Sweets Factory, you know that candy store, and I was just like fuck it I’ll go apply or whatever and I really didn’t think I’d get hired or anything, but I ended up working there for a couple months. And that was pretty lame.
Have you ever made zines or anything?
I only made one ever. I made one that Hamburger Eyes put out a couple years ago, but I haven’t done the whole kinkos thing or anything like that. I’m actually trying to make one right now. I have all this stuff from a whole bunch of China trips that I’m trying to do something with. But I haven’t really done too much.
Alright, when’s the last time you bought music?
Like within the last month or so”¦
Do you buy vinyl? mp3’s?
You know I actually have a bunch of records but I haven’t bought anything in a while. I also don’t have a record player currently cause I don’t have a lot of room for a setup in my house right now. But mostly now, if I buy anything I’ll buy it on iTunes. It’s been a while since I actually bought anything at a record store. I do miss that, but I don’t miss it taking up all that space.
So you like LA?
Yeah I mean there’s things I like, there’s things I don’t like about it. I’m definitely used to it at this point, and I definitely like the weather. I’m pretty conditioned to it at this point, it was like 60 something today and I felt like it was freezing.
But besides the weather, what’s cool about LA?
I mean, well a lot of it is tied to weather. But it’s like any other city, good stuff to eat and the beach is right there which is rad, you know and theres a lot of cool nature stuff that’s easily accessible, which is rad. I don’t like the driving part of it, because I’ve spent so much time in my car you know driving to spots and stuff like that. I’ve made a lot of good friends out here, you know it’s just an easy place to live. Other than the driving.
So yo, how long were you straight edge?
Ha! uhhhh, what’s that from? I guess really since a little before I was 21. So not that long, but it felt long then.
So what was one of the last skate photos you saw that you were hyped on?
I guess that Transworld cover, the back tail with the Jon Nyugen dude. It’s like a back tail on a ledge that looks like it’s over waist high. That was pretty rad, Mike O’Meally has shot a bunch of great photos recently, and he’s one of my favorite photographers. He had a photo of Desmond Sage, lip sliding one of those round bike racks. It was shot from behind, right under fdr, that’s one that’s been in my head recently.
So do you want to say anything to kids skating who want to shoot photos that are reading this?
For one thing, shoot a lot. Shoot everything, and that’s the main thing. Just shoot all the time and work on it all the time, then find what photos you like and what you like about them and then try to figure out how you did that. I guess that’s the most important thing. Other than that it’s just luck and shooting people that people want to look at.

================================================================================

Off-Tempo
is a collaborative skate video based out of Richmond, VA that’s filmed and edited by Ian Mondragon and Tyler Brady in association with
Good Time Skateboard Co
.
Interview by Zach Moeller.
When did you guys start working on the video and whose idea was it to start the project?
Ian: Sometime around 2018 after finishing up with a video called
Click Bait
that was filmed by DJ Williford I had some momentum and wanted to jump on another video project. I’ve filmed with and lived with Tyler before so we have a lot of the same friends. We both like making full lengths, so I figured if we worked together we could make something really nice.
Tyler: I remember in late 2018 beginning to shoot random clips here and there without a plan. After a little while more people wanted to get clips and Richie started stacking clips without a shirt on. As soon as he noticed, he wanted to put together an entire shirtless part. I wanted to put together a part for myself, too, since I never have. I guess it was about that time that we were thinking “let’s put something together.” Then, sometime in 2019, Ian and I started talking about everything we had been filming separately and that conversation kind of naturally turned into brainstorming about doing a full-length collaborative video.
How did the crew come together?
Tyler: Most of the crew has basically known each other for a decade now. If it’s any shorter, it sure feels like we’ve known each other forever. I remember meeting Ian, JD, and a lot of the other crew in 2009 when I moved to Richmond for college. At that point I had only been skating for a year or so, and wasn’t exposed to many local videos. Ian had made a video called
Doormen
that really opened my eyes and inspired me. I kept skating in Richmond over the last 10 years and made a solid group of friends to go out and create with, and I’m glad that crew continued to grow and include more and more people throughout the filming of this video too.
Ian: Richmond is a pretty tight city where everyone knows each other. Most of us have been involved in videos with each other before. Luckily I’ve known most our crew for over 10 years. I guess that’s what comes with being on the older side as a skater. We try to be very welcome to new heads who wanna shred and it’s been a pleasure to see some new faces come into play.
What’s the most challenging aspect of filming a full length in this day and age?
Ian: Well, as we all get older life doesn’t get any easier. Skating and filming comes in between working full time, domestic life, and just being old and getting hurt all the time. Also keeping all my old outdated camera gear running smooth has been expensive and tedious. Whatever though, life is challenging and I’m glad we have the opportunity to do something we love.
Tyler: My initial thought is that it gets harder and harder to sit in the sun and film just because it’s the right angle for the shot – that could have something to do with me being bald, though. But, coordinating everyone’s schedules was pretty hard especially toward the end, Covid made this video hard to work on at all, and I often felt like I had a good idea for one of the homies on a particular spot and we’d get there and I’d be so so wrong.
Most memorable moments from filming for the video?
Tyler: Richie filming an entire part shirtless. Evan dancing on the ground every time he fell. Anytime anyone fell really hard, got up, and then landed the trick after getting messed up. Most importantly, how close the Richmond community came together during the protests throughout 2020 – additionally, the support from the BIPOC community to skate and reclaim the former location of a  J.E.B. Stuart statue on Monument Avenue.
Ian: There are so many moments, whether we are getting clips or not. Just seeing everyones passion get lit up when a video is on the line. Watching people work for tricks and come Through last try is so magical every time. Also just watching the world go through a pandemic and social movement during our video has been pretty memorable.
How did you promote the video around Richmond?
Tyler: Ian drew up these animations of our heads spinning to go into the video parts, but I loved them so much that I had to work them into the branding for the video. I tossed them and the information together to create posters that then I screen printed and hung up at parks and our favorite local spots around town. We’ve done some Instagram promotions since, and about 6 months ago we all had some promotional parts made of b-roll clips that were posted in full to Instagram TV. Our homie Evan Surmaj wrote and produced all of the music for those promo parts – he absolutely crushed it and makes some amazing music.
Ian: We designed some flyers together and Tyler screen printed them. Also social media is a really easy way to promote stuff like this these days.
Where can people buy the video?
Tyler: The video is available as a DVD package that comes with a 48-page zine of photographs from the making of the video. As well, we have a limited number of packs of nine holographic collector’s cards and a sticker, since I’m a little obsessed with making trading cards, and we’re selling some of the screen printed posters too. They’ll all be available through
Ian
and I’s Instagrams and
my website

================================================================================

Interview and photos by Isaac McKay Randozzi.
How old are you?
I’m 19. Aww shit I’m actually 20 now!
Who are your sponsors?
I skate for 303 Skateshop in Denver and I’m flow for DC Shoes, DGK, Diamond, and I also get clothes from this shop/company called Phats Buddah Spot.
When did you start skating?
I was born into it because my dad worked in a skateshop so I was kind of riding around before I could even walk comfortably.
How old were you when you did your first ollie?
There is this one time where I remember I hit my face trying to ollie over a parking block and I was like 4. That’s the most vivid memory that I have.
Have you always lived in Denver?
No, when my dad worked for this shop they relocated us to Albuquerque and we lived there for a year, and then I moved back here when I was 8. When I was 16 me and my roommate Orange moved to Louisiana and skated in New Orleans for a little bit. Then I moved back here and then to Portland for a little bit and then came back.
You guys just did it on your own?
Yeah, we moved to New Orleans and then I went to Portland by myself. I was on Social Security so I could kind of do whatever.
So you weren’t going to school or anything?
No, I lived in this rave house for a little bit with Orange and we just couldn’t get me to go to school ever. I just stopped going after that.
How long have you been on 303?
They’ve been plugging me up for almost two years, but they officially put me on the team two months ago.
How long have you been doing video stuff, filming, and editing, etc?
Me and my friends, when we were 8, used to make little montages and stuff, but I got a camera on my 18th birthday. I bought it from my current landlord. I was saving up for a whole year for that VX.
What did you use before the VX?
We were filming on this little ass janky DSLR. It was pretty horrible.
Was it bad in an artsy way or just plain old bad?
It was sick, it got us started for sure. Orange already knew what he was doing from before in Florida, so it worked out perfectly, but the VX is definitely a step up!
You two just put out a new video, how long did it take to film and what’s it called?
Two years, we jumped on it pretty much as soon as we got the VX because we had just started getting ur little crew together. It’s called
Sparked
.
You just had a renegade premiere for it at a local neighborhood spot, projecting it up on a wall. How’d that go?
At first, it was fucked up because the sprinklers turned on and got a bunch of people and Orange was running a little late, but it was so sick. Honestly, it turned out so amazing and so many kids came, it was pretty awesome.
How was the response?
Everybody loved it. It was pretty crazy to see how many people watched it in the past couple days it’s been up on YouTube. Everyone that went to the premiere was juiced on it.
Are you going to do hard copies?
Absolutely.
The travel bug hit you again and you’re about to pack up and move to Philly. What brought that on?
Since I was a little kid my dad used to take trips to Philly because his best friend used to live out there, and they would come back and tell me stories about it. So I’ve always wanted to be out there anyways. It seems like it’s a healthier move and there is a bigger  scene and a bigger city to be around.
I remember you mentioning SF at one point. What made you change your mind?
I just wanted to be a little more comfortable and I don’t know if I can handle living in a house with eleven dudes. Philly is a little cheaper and still a big city. It’s a little more my pace I feel.
You have a healthy appreciation for skate history and have collected a few things over the years. Where did that come from?
A lot of that is from my dad and his stuff. Since I was a kid he put me on to old skate videos and showed me how important it is to have wall bangers and preserve some of that history. That it is important to know your roots and know where everything came from. It’s pretty sick too because it’s something maybe a lot of people don’t have anymore because they skated those boards, or those videos got played too much and got eaten or thrown out. It’s just nice to have something from that time and being able to appreciate a little bit of that history.
What’s your personal favorite out of your collection?
Holy shit, I don’t know. Probably that
Photosynthesis
tape, I’m surprised that thing isn’t broken yet. Or that Stereo board that is hanging on my wall from the 2003 re-boot, that’s one of my favorites. I bring that one with me whenever I move.
What would you consider your Holy Grail?
I have this Lance Mountain family board that’s chrome and they haven’t done a reissue of that one. I just leave that one at my mom’s house so nothing happens to it.
If you had an unlimited budget what would be the first board you’d buy?
Oh man, probably one of the Animobile graphics Don Pendleton did for Alien. I don’t know which one but maybe the Dill one. I remember when I was 16, talking about wanting to get one of those as a tattoo. But that’d be kind of fried.
I’ve seen a lot worse on folks. Do you have any thank you’s or fuck you’s?
Thanks to everybody that peeped our video and continues to support all of us. Everybody that has helped me and my friends out trying to finsih this video. Thanks to Casey at 303 for buying us tapes and everything. You, Orange, and Sam at 303.

================================================================================

So where are you from and what’s it all about out there?
Born in Jersey, raised in Raleigh/Durham, North Carolina.
North Carolina’s cool. Jersey is tight too, just didn’t spend much
time there growing up.
Any good spots?
Yeah, NC State University is a prime area. There are some really good
parks/backyard ramps.
You had a pretty sick crew in NC, right? I know you guys put out a video and all killed it, what’s up with them now that you’re gone?
Yeah. The crew has changed over the years. People came and went. The
video was Carolina love. I guess Dan Murphy and Justin Brock are the
two who took it to the top when it came to skating. Dan’s pro for
Foundation, Justin is pro for Real and I know they just be skating on
the regular. Justin has traveled the world and that’s pretty rad.
Cause I remember the day he dropped out of high school. James Tupper
was and still is a great editor/filmer who works at a corporate spot
now, Jed Shooter is pro for Finesse and has a backyard ramp and works
on cars. Jeremy Menard got me to join this corporate cult for a week
then it got weird so I bailed, but he kept doing it and is now winning
a ton of money playing poker from what I last remember. Tyler Tufty
works for Nike. Everyone else still skates for the most part which is
great.
After being all the way in San Francisco how do things compare to
the East Coast?
Man, I really like it here. I skate way more than I did on the east coast just because I sold my car to get out here so I’m always pushing everywhere like you guys. It’s the shit. I don’t have to worry about the cops when it comes to skateboarding and people rarely flip out on you.
You’ve got tons going on right now, you’re the team manager for Satori wheels, you’re filming and editing Destroying Babylon day in and day out and yet I never see you stressing! What’s your secret?
Skating and long bicycle rides. I try and eat healthy too, I found being honest helps, if you ain’t feeling something you should say so and let it out. I guess I’m just stoked to be alive, I almost died the first month I was out here involving a big hill, rain, night time, a bicycle and a car. I feel like I should’ve been dead but somehow survived so it’s good to remind myself things could be worse.
What’s the video all about? What can we expect to see and where can we peep?
The video is just all the sick cats I’ve met out here while skating. I
guess you can expect just raw skating, I didn’t really fuck with the
footy at all, it’s 30 minutes of footage, no slow motion, the whole video features a sound track by Russian Circles, it’s just a long montage, no blackness between parts, just something to fry your brain with. Come see it new years eve at my house if you’re the homies, and Jan 8 at dlx skate shop on market street.
www.destroyingbabylon.com/awol
for other states premieres.
I’ve never seen someone with crazier food choices than you, how do you stay alive, shredding from sunrise to sunset?
I guess turning straight edge for 5 years and doing yoga . Sometimes my heart starts racing too much and I feel like I’m gonna die from working it too hard. But I try and just stick to shopping at food stores and not eating fast food. Bananas, apples, broccoli. I met this 75 year old dude out here one day at the beach who was filming the sunsets, he had a gnarly energy going on with what he was doing, just super stoked. I asked him what was up and he has been filming the sunsets for like 30 years now. He has hundreds of dv tapes each individually dated. He meets people then finds the sunset of their birthday and shows it to them. He only eats raw foods and still surfs and skates. He bombs hills on his longboard goofy and regular, doesn’t
take any medication. I guess seeing that and realizing if you do take the time to care for yourself, you can still be killing it when your old. I know you could die any day but when I do I’d like to be on that hype feel good shit.
Shout out all your homies!
All you Boston cats for straight charging it out here, all the homies that I’ve met out here who rip. Johnny for the surf hookup, Satori for the job, and the streets / my board for keeping me away from all the bullshit in life. One love.

================================================================================

Tell me what’s going on with this show you got going on right now in NYC?
The show is called SKATE LIFE. It is a collection of images that represent the last five years I’ve spent skateboarding and shooting all over the world. The show is in the lower east side of Manhattan at PANDA gallery. It will be up from November 22 to December 22.
Do you have photos from all the places you’ve gone on tour with Natural Koncept and other people?
Yeah the bulk of my images come from all the tours that I have been on with Natural Koncept for sure. I pulled images from the East and West coast tours as well as Mexico City and Spain Trips. The rest are mostly my homies shredding NYC and the Northeast.
Is there any theme that you’re running with for the show?
I don’t really have a theme. I just tried to put together the rawest images that I feel represent the core and heart of Skateboarding.
Other than this art show what else have you been working on?
I’m currently filming for my video part for Natural Koncept’s
Polygamy
that will be coming out early 2011. But for the most part just trying to skate and shoot as much as I can.
Where else can people see work from you if they can’t make it to the show while the exhibit’s up?
The
Transworld
S
kateboarding
website has all the tours, trips and contests I’ve covered. Also the
Levil Uniform Magazine
site.
My flickr
and
my blog
CHECK IT!!!!!!!
The people over at Natural Koncepts have brought you on trips in the past do you plan on traveling more with them or anyone else in the future?
NK ALL DAY!!! we have a world tour coming up next year that I’m hyped on. I’m down to go on trips with other people but as of now no opportunities have come up. I’m headed to Hartford this weekend to skate a secret spot with the shut/ Skate Lair crew that is described by Eric Munday from Skate Lair as “wallos on CRACK” So SICK!!!
Would you like to thank anyone that’s helped you out with this show or anyone in general?
I would love to thank all the sponsors for the show.
Undergrind.tv
, NEFF, Blades Board and Skate, Pull-In underwear,
Transworld Skateboarding
magazine, GoodWood, Natural Koncept, Drive-In studios NYC, Dan and Joe at Panda Gallery,  my art director DIRK For designing the flyer and posters and Travis Storer and
Skate Jawn
for There support and the opportunity to have this interview.

================================================================================

Interview by Tanner Ballengee. Photos by Jacob Taylor.
Do you like your name?
Over time I’ve grown to like it, I’ve even grown to like ‘Steve,’ which is something that would bum me out when I was a kid. Growing up I was told it was a white boy’s name because I’m Hispanic.
So what happened to your knee?
I was trying to Jimmy flip a seven stair in 2012. I was trying to bring it and sing it. I remember, oddly enough, that day was one of the first days I ever stretched before skating. I used to never do that. And that day I tore my ACL. I don’t really remember much after that. I remember driving home in like a full daze, and then I remember throwing money at my friend to get me whatever pain medicine would help. I mean it’s easy to look back now and be like ‘oh t was a blessing in disguise’ but it really was because I started focusing on art.
Where do you think you’d be if you hadn’t torn your ACL?
At the time I was a full blown skate rat. My life was consumed by it. Not like it isn’t now, but it was to the point where it’s all I would do. But when that happened it gave me time to just sit with myself, you know? I started focusing more on art and I guess I fell in love wit it. It gave me the same feeling that skateboarding gave me. I was excited about something.
Have you ever been in love?
Yes.
Text or call?
Text. I still remember living a life without texting, but these days a phone call seems aggressive to me.
What exactly is
Heckride
?
I mean, aside from being a website, Heckride stemmed from a group of friends who love to skate and wish they were as gnarly as the Hellride guys but just aren’t. Keeping it relatable.
And you do the artwork?
Yeah, I do the artwork. And my buddy who wants to remain anonymous, not for some crazy reason or anything, he just likes the anonymity. I do the artwork, I feel like he does most of the legwork, but he begs to differ. It’s an operation, you know. We both play a pivotal part in it.
What was the first one?
James Hardy was the first interview which is already a fucking banger you know? James Hardy and then Tom K was the second. And there’s also a side project called B-Roll. B-Roll is just another segment on the website besides interviews.
Do you think it’s gonna be the next
Boil The Ocean
? Have you read that blog?
Yeah. Wow. I haven’t read that in a while. There was a theory, or just a rumor that it was Ocean Howell because nobody knows who writes Boil The Ocean.
Is that why the Heckride dude wants to remain anonymous?
I think he just wants to have that anonymity so the work can speak for itself.
How many skate videos do you own?
The last I counted I think I was at around 320. And a quick shout out to my buddy Joe Clark for sending me the Clean video, out of Minneapolis by Chris Burt.
What’s your favorite video?
That’s hard, man. I have different favorites for different reasons. But if I had to save one video, like if I had to jump over my cats and knock my girlfriend over in a house fire to get one video out of the collection, it would be the video we made as teenagers in high school called
No Talent
that my buddy Patrick Stuhr made. It’s just such a time capsule to look at that footage. It was all filmed with this really shitty little Handycam. Yeah, it would be that video. Now as far as my holy grails go, I would say Spirit Quest. Just because Colin Read is, you know, a fucking genius.
Uh…what happens when you die?
Fuck you, dude. I become your cat.
I was just about to ask you if you would ever become a cat.
We all become cats someday.
What keeps you alive?
My friends, my family, empathy, skateboarding, little things, nuances, riding my bike, my two cats, dog, my girlfriend, responsibilities, younger people. Schedules, deadlines. I feel like people depend on me. And not in a bad way, you know. As I’ve gotten older I’ve realized that life is larger than myself.
Do you believe that skateboarding chose you?
I would say it chose my brother. Skateboarding was the first thing aside from art where I felt like I could do it alone and have fun. Empty driveways and empty parking lots are a thing of the past when it comes to kids growing up skating now. At least from my perspective. Maybe I’m wrong, but there’s an amazing skatepark two blocks away in every goddamn city these days. But I grew up skating a fucking slab of concrete because I wasn’t old enough to go to the shitty skatepark.
What’s something you don’t have that you wish you did?
Self-esteem. And any skate video I don’t already own. I can’t think of anything else.
What’s next? Do you have anything you’re working on? Anything coming up?
Yeah, I have a couple of cool things coming out. Currently keeping the wheels rolling on Heckride. We have a lot of interesting people lined up. Hopefully, that goes through. My buddy has a book coming out called
Tourorist
. By the time you’re reading this it should be out. It’s a pretty good read. I would definitely recommend it as well as his other book,
Sixty Tattoos I Secretly Gave Myself at Work
, by Tanner Ballengee. I did the artwork for his most recent published work. You can snag that at
tridentcafe.com
. He’s also working on a skate video, entitled
PISS
, that I will have a full part in. I never thought I’d be filming a part in my thirties but I’m really excited about it. More art direction at Backyard Skateboards. I have some pretty fun commissions I’m working on. Just trying to stay busy, stay sane, stay healthy, stay active. We’re living in some strange times. And just trying to keep in touch with all my friends because, you know, it hasn’t been a fun two years.
One day at a time…any last thing that you want to say?
Check up on your friends. We’re losing a lot of people, a lot of great people. Reach out. God knows I’ve been in that situation. And also, be nice to people. That’s all I gotta say, man. Just fucking be nice.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller.
Photos by Elias Parise.
What’s up Richie?
Yeah, I just got out of work. I’ve been there since 7am.
What are you doing for a job?
I work at Adorama. I manage a used photography indexing department. We buy any photography or video equipment and I check the grading on it, seeing what condition it’s in cosmetically. It’s a fucking weird job.
What’s the work schedule like? Can you skate much?
I get out by 4pm Monday through Thursday and Fridays I’m out by 11:30am. I never have to work weekends.
What part of New Jersey are you from?
I’m from Carteret. Where I grew up it’s pretty industrial. It’s right on the other side of Staten Island. It’s basically another toxic waste dump, but it’s cool living over there. There’s a lot of cool different things to find. It’s different than most parts of Jersey.
Is Fred Gall your dad?
Pretty much haha. He kind of took over that role when I was like 10 years old and started bringing me on skate missions.
How’d you first link up with him?
He owned Domestics near where I grew up and I met him through that. I’ve known him ever since.
Any good stories from the days of riding around with him in his station wagon?
Ah dude there’s so many. He always took great care of me. I remember there was one time where he brought me home pretty late. We were skating Bud Banks, it’s this euro gap spot down in South Jersey. I think I was 11 years old. We were there until 1:30 or 2 in the morning. I just remember him bringing me to the Taco Bell drive-through as a little ass kid. It’s pretty funny, he got me a nice little happy meal haha.
How old were you when you started skating?
I think I got my first board in ‘99, so around that time is when I started messing around.
Tell me about your cat.
My cat’s name is Lottie. She’s this disabled cat with three legs. She’s cool as hell. I’ve had her for about 8 months now. She’s about to be three.
You put in work with Brandon Stepanow for his two full lengths,
Open Container
and
Sportsmanshit
. How did you first meet him and what’s it like filming together?
Thank you so much! I met him through a good friend of mine Tony, he kind of grew up near where Brandon lived. I met up with them one day in Newark and we were skating this bank to wall under this bridge. Ever since then me and Brandon have clicked really well. We have a great time. Just having fun doing what we’re doing, going on missions all the time. He brings a good vibe to everything.
How often do you leave Jersey?
Honestly I barely go on trips right now because of work. I need to build up PTO. I have been leaving almost every weekend though to go to the city to meet up with Brandon before the deadline for
Open Container
. That’s where everybody was.
Is it true that you roomed with Jaws on an IPATH trip?
That is true. I roomed with Ben Raybourn, Jaws, and Ryan Reyes. They were sick.
What was that like?
They picked me up in Jersey and went down to Kinetic Skateshop in Delaware. I got a quick ride to Philly with them. I was 15 at the time and my mom actually let me skip school, which was kind of sick. It was a good trip. Me and Ben were hanging out at Denny’s in Philly until like 3 in the morning. I remember eating spaghetti or something haha.
Do you wish that IPATH was still around?
Dude definitely. Those were the sickest shoes! Hands down.
What was it like being around for the full lifespan of Jody’s Spot?
My favorite memories were getting calls from Fred around 7 in the morning being like, “Hey man, there’s about 100 pieces of cobblestone sitting on the side of the train tracks. Can you go move them? I’m doing another run right now.” I’d basically have to get right out of bed and start moving pieces of cobblestone over train tracks every morning haha. It was pretty cool. It was funny but it was also a lot of work. That whole spot was the best time I’ve had honestly. I grew up under that bridge haha.
Talk to me about skating the Green Monster with Fred in Newark.
He went there like 10 more times than I have. I went there about five times, loading up the van and hiking out there at the worst timing, every time. We usually only had about an hour span before the security guard kicked us out. Fred put in so much work for that. Everything was amazing. That whole vibe was great. We were just fueling off of each other and getting psyched, listening to “Pull the Plug” by DEATH on repeat.
What’s the scariest moment you’ve had on a skateboard?
Fuck, I’m trying to think right now. I don’t know, I kind of black out when I skate. Usually when I’m up on something high I can get nervous.
How much sugar do you put in your coffee?
I usually do five packs every morning at 7. I need to get wired up for the morning haha.
Which video part has been the most inspiring to you?
Steve Durante in
Inhabitants
was alway one of my favorites. Steve Durante fucking rules.
Any good Bond Street stories?
Club ATM, we hung out at that ATM a lot and made a lot of good friends because that thing was bright as hell and you could actually see people’s faces from it.
If you could give your 10 year old self one piece of advice, what would it be?
Definitely don’t just follow what everyone else is doing. Do your own thing and be fucking pysched on everything you do.
Do you think you’ll ever move to a different state?
I think I’m here for life. You have everything you need. You got the city 45 minutes away, Philly’s about an hour and 20, and then you’ve got the beach 30 minutes away too. You got the best of all worlds here.
Let’s wrap this thing up. Any shout outs?
Shout out to my parents, Fred Gall, Lou Metal, Josh at Travel, Steve Lenardo at NJ, everyone that helped at Jody’s Spot, and all the homies!

================================================================================

Photos by Liam Annis. Interview by Larry Davis.
How are you and what have you been up to today?
Can’t complain. Just got off work, about to smoke. I live in Hyannis right now and I’ve been installing invisible fences, basically just running a wire around people’s houses for a shock collar for their dog.
We did an interview with you in 2015 and you were living in Hyannis, playing in FIFA tournaments, and you had just started getting boards from DGK. What’s the biggest difference between that Brian and the one I’m talking with today?
The FIFA tournament I was talking about back then was just a bunch of Jamaicans betting money on games. So just two people play, and then all the fools make bets on the side. It would get intense. They don’t play around with FIFA. But yeah, that’s probably the biggest difference because I’m still in Hyannis and still getting DGK boards.
Have you ever lived anywhere else?
I lived in Boston briefly.
Why didn’t it work out there?
It wasn’t that it didn’t work out, I moved into a skate house with a bunch of homies in Allston, but I was trying to go on a trip and I didn’t have money to dip work and pay rent so I ended up just giving my room to Dutchy, and she held onto it for mad long after. I only live an hour from the city so I just drive up and I save money.
You live with your folks?
Yeah it’s just me and my pops, which is basically just like living with a roommate though. He does his thing and I do mine, and I’m not here very much.
Are you going on a lot of trips?
Yeah but just going on my own tip. I did just do a DGK trip like two weeks ago, but I’ll usually just hop in the whip and drive down to New York for four or five days, come back and hit Boston. I’ve been going to New York a bunch.
You just had the
Grand Collection part
drop, did that really take two weekends?
Nah, it was like eight days all together. It was dope though, that wasn’t even supposed to be a video part. They were just dropping that jazz collection thing and I was supposed to go down there and shoot some b-roll and play my saxophone.
You know how to play saxophone? Who got you into music?
Oh yeah, it’s sitting right next to me right now. I did the whole jazz band thing through high school and all that shit. My dad got the sax way before I was born, but that dude doesn’t really stick to much so it just sat around until I was old enough to pick it up and fuck around with it.
So you were supposed to just play saxophone for this video part?
Yeah but we would just go out and film all day. Then Ben would hit me up like “you end up hitting the sax, or getting any footage with that?” and I’d just be like “Nah, but I filmed clips.” I just kept doing that and it became a part. Maybe the next one I’ll play some sax on it.
Do you have any other interests or hobbies outside of skating?
I mean, what everyone else fucking does, shoot 35mm film. Other than that I’ve been doing some random patch stuff trying to customize shit. I was swapping the N’s on all my New Balance shoes. This one pair, the 379’s, all the N’s are different colors. So I skated those for a while and then I took them off and put them on these all black ones. It was pretty sick looking.
You trying to project something?
Yeah man I’m laying the foundation. I got shoe designs, holler at your boy.
I’m sure you’ve heard this one before, but did you know you have the same name as the guy who designed the D3?
Oh yeah, there’s some clip of Wes Kremer on The Nine Club talking about the D3 then looking at the camera and going “shoutout Brian Reid.” That shit’s hilarious.
How long were you filming with Tim Savage for
Grace
?
Altogether about three years, there’s some old clips in that thing.
Whose part was your favorite?
If I had to pick one I’d go with Justin because I love him a lot. I talk to Justin every day. He just started getting boards from
Visit
too.
What’s Visit?
It’s Gallant’s board company. He just has a single board press in his garage and he’s just been running them out of there.
I feel like there’s a lot of people trying to do board manufacturing now.
Honestly it seems like a shitty thing to get into. It seems stressful and not worth it. But fuck it, send it.
Sounds like skating sometimes. Anything coming up that you’re really looking forward to?
Yeah, I’m trying to put out a welcome to DGK part. Because in the grand scheme of things nobody really knows who I am I guess. And I want to put out an am part or whatever. So I’m trying to put that out today if I could, but soon for sure.
People know. So six years ago you were rocking some temporary front teeth, you got something more permanent in there now?
I’ve got two posts in there and then they build the tooth around that. I actually need to go and get them redone before I’m 26 because of health insurance and shit.
Clock’s ticking bud.
All I want for Christmas is my two front teeth, and I’m not fucking kidding.

================================================================================

How long have you been building skate parks for?
Professionally I’ve been building parks since 2014. But I’ve been building ramps literally since I started skating, in my driveway, in my basement, and throughout the streets. But the first time I got paid to build ramps was in 2014, going on 6 years.
What was the first thing you ever made to skate ?
I started skating in 2001, and the first ramps I ever built were probably within the first year of skating. I made ramps in my Moms driveway. I had a full setup in my driveway. That was the first thing I ever built and that was all out wood, I didn’t know what the fuck I was doing at all. Just going off intuition. I was just screwing shit together. The first concrete I ever poured, probably some shit back in Jersey. We had a little ditch in Ewing, NJ. That OG ditch that was skated for a couple generations before I ever touched it. Me and the boys built a little quarter pipe extension in the ditch. There was this other little foundation spot around the way where we built a little ledge and kicker ramp at. My homie Bobby kickflip back tailed the ledge, first try ever. I won’t ever forget that.
You seem to have a thing for concrete? Why is that your favorite material to work with?
For sure. I’m addicted. It’s my strongest addiction. I want to mix it up any second, anywhere, for any application. I like it because it’s malleable like clay. You can make shapes that you can’t even compute with math. I love how it’s a time sensitive material. Whether your mixing up bags or  concrete from a truck, there’s a chemical reaction happening. You get one shot to do it and you gotta be on it. There’s no time to take a lunch break, and think about it. You can’t say ‘I’m over it we’re gonna pick up where we left off and do it tomorrow’. It’s a pretty exhilarating thing. You got one shot to do it and you gotta make it the best you can every time you do it. And that’s what we do.
Most common way to blow it making a DIY spot?
Not doing it. It doesn’t really take too much brain power or effort to build a DIY spot you just have to do it. You just have to go and do it. That’s the beauty of building DIY or anything really, you gotta think of something you want, you gotta go out there and do it. You gotta realize there’s gonna be a lot shit that’s gonna get in the way. You gotta go to Home Depot, you gotta get the concrete. You might have to go to Home Depot three times in a day round tripping just to get all the concrete cause you can’t put it all in your Ford Ranger at once. Then you gotta get all the water… You can’t really blow it at making a DIY besides just talking about it. Say less, do more. Everything’s fun to skate. Anything is fun to skate. But it ain’t fun to skate if you’re just talking about it. You gotta get out there, you get that water, get that concrete, bring a couple shovels whatever. You just gotta do it.
Have you made more skate spots or skate parks?
Definitely skate parks. I’ve always wanted to keep an ongoing list of how many parks I’ve built but it’s tough because what do you define building a park? I’ve worked on projects where I came in and I worked on it for three days, or two weeks, or the entire thing from start to finish.
I know Uzi is keeping track, he’s trying to hit 100.
If I had to make a genuine guess as to how many parks I’ve helped work on, because that kinda encompasses it all. I would say I’m probably on my way to fifty.
One thing you’ve learned from Rez?
I’d say one thing I’ve learned is that when people love you, you can then you can love everything and you can love everything about life. This dog is lucky, he came from nothing literally and he’s just got so much love and he’s reciprocated every ounce of love that he’s got. I watch my dog get so much love from people and then he’ll give that love right back to the people loving him. But if he wasn’t getting all that love from people maybe he wouldn’t be this super awesome loving dog. You give people love and they can reciprocate that love back through the world.
How does building skate parks affect how you think about skating, and how much you do it?
I feel like skating and your relationship with skating is ever changing. Everyone’s different. But as a young kid all I wanted to do was skate. I overlooked many things other kids were concerned with just to skate. Just so fucking infatuated with skating. All I wanted to do was skate, get clips, and get photos. I think about this a lot because skating no matter how you want to think about it, is in a way a selfish activity. Only one human can stand on a skateboard. When your standing on a skateboard it’s all about you, and that’s the way it should be. Of course you’re out there with your homies and that’s the communal aspect of it. But when you really break it down it’s kind of self centered activity in a way compared to a sports team where everyone’s contributing towards the same goal. So right out the gate, starting to build parks that totally flipped my thoughts about skating cause I feel like I finally found a way to make skating very much a communal thing or a community based thing. So as a kid I was more concerned with skateboarding for myself, but to me that’s kind of a closed minded way to look at skating. I want to grow skateboarding everywhere and give everyone a chance to do it. So through the parks that’s the best way I can do it. I just want to spread skating through these parks. As far as how it affects your skating or how much you skate, it’s like anything. You can’t skate if you’re not standing on a board, and building parks doesn’t always involve standing on a board. Yea, you can skate the park when your done, but its manual labor. We build parks and skate em when we’re done, or as soon as they are skateable, the first quarter pipe with some flat to carve, or skate the bowl with no flat. But honestly I feel like I skate everyday, even though that’s not the case. Now days skating is more about what you contribute to it as a whole, to me. I finally found something in my life where the feeling is equal, or more compared to actually riding the board. It’s transferable. When I’m on the job site pounding a stake into the ground to build a skatepark that’s me landing the dopest trick. All I do every single fuckin day is skating. Every last thing in my life on a daily basis is for skating, or skateparks. There’s nothing I do that’s not about skating.

================================================================================

Alright gimme the basic details, who are you? Where are you from? When did you start skating? Where are you at now?
My name is Shane Kassin. My dad was in the Coast Guard so I moved every 3 years. I lived in Florida the longest, so I claim Satellite Beach as where I’m from! I started skating in Houston when I was 13, I now live in Durham, North Carolina.
Does everyone in Florida really drive a Mustang?
I was just there a month or two ago and I think there may be some truth to those allegations.
To be honest there are people that love their mustangs in Florida but I can honestly say no one in my group of brothers has one and I’m proud of that!
Tell me about bum face, when did Bumface first appear? How much control does he exert over your life? Is he actually in charge of things?
Bumface was just a character that I started drawing when I was a youngin’. I started doodling him on my skateboards and in random places. I can’t really describe the meaning of him! But ever since he became my Instagram handle he kinda just took over my life and I became him. BUMFACE!
How’d you end up Birdhouse flow?Not really one of the first brands that springs to mind when you think of skateboarding on the east coast.
My brother [no blood relation] Clive Dixon hooked me up for the most part. He gave me Jerome’s [Birdhouse TM] email and told me to send him some footage and see if I could start getting some boards. Jerome has been hooking me up with birdhouse boards since! I couldn’t be more grateful for it! Birdhouse boards are really good, I love their shapes! if you haven’t had one yet you should give them a try.
Was there ever a point at which you were trying to make a go of it in the skate world, or have you been tossing yourself off big ass drops this whole time just for fun?
That’s a funny question! I think everyone in their skate-life has thought or dreamt about what it would be like to make it, but for the most part I was just living life, working full time. I’d go out of town pretty much every weekend on filming missions or just fun road trips with the boys! And the tricks you’d try wouldn’t necessarily be based upon if I get this I’m going to get recognized or sponsored or any of that, it was all about being at the spot and having the battle with yourself and your mind, whether or not you’re going to be able to get the trick you want. Either it’s that huge
gap you heard of in that town or the crazy weird spot that stole your eye while driving through a new city. Something just sparks in your head and you just gotta try it! It’s a win or lose battle that can send you into a mental breakdown or make you the happiest dude ever! And at the end of it all it was just for yourself! So it pretty much is just for fun, haha.
What else do you have going on when you’re not skating?
I’m addicted to woodworking! I work in a wood shop during the day and I have my own studio space where I go at night and work on my own things. I like to make furniture from old skateboards and weirdly designed table tops with wood from different tree species. It’s great, I think every skateboarder should get into it! There are so many tricks and things to learn, it can never be fully conquered, very similar to skating but without the heel bruises and joint pain!
Damn, you work a lot, your hobby sounds like a second job…Is it hard to balance skating with indentured servitude?
Haha, nah I’m actually immune pretty much! When I lived in Florida I worked for a commercial contractor which was way more labor intensive than my job now, and I’d skate everyday after work. My body knows no other way!
Rank the following from best to worst: Bowser, Lathe, Skateboarding
Oh man I don’t think any of these options are bad, I need them all! Haha. Bowser, my dog for the constant smile, my skateboard to escape life problems, and my wood lathe to just zone out and not think of anything but the pattern I’m trying to follow.
Are you stoked with how your part in the Scout turned out? What was the biggest battle? Any tricks that got away?
Yea, I’m psyched on it! I think Alex [Traboulsi] did a great job putting it all together, and it was super fun going out filming with him, he cracks me up! He’s just a good dude, and I’m glad he let me be part of it. Everyone involved with the video made it that much better of a project, it would be hard to not be hyped on it! I would say the switch front blunt on tall ledge was the biggest struggle, I think I went back like 6 times for that, haha. I think the worst part is that I went back a couple more times to try to get a better one, haha, horrible for your mind! Towards the end I tried to get
some bigger tricks but failed and kinda just had to draw the line as the deadline was there. You always just want one more!
How do short guys end up having so much pop?
Haha, I don’t know how to answer that. I used to watch Jamie Housel when I was younger. That man was a hometown pop legend! He probably thought I’d throw his name in here! and everything in Florida is flat so you had to be able to snap up on things!
Anyone you want to talk shit about in public, or less interesting, give shoutouts, etc. to?
I’d like to thank you of course and Skate Jawn for having this interview! Alex Traboulsi for sticking with me during my battles while filming for Scout and letting me be a part of his project. We had some really good times! Jerome at Birdhouse, I’m super grateful for you sending me boards! Matt Hartzel is a nerd. All my friends that just make skateboarding that much more fun!
Watch Shane in “Scout” by Alex Traboulsi:
www.vimeo.com/alextraboulsi
Follow Shane on Instagram: @bum_face
For inquiries about any woodworking projects, email bumfacestudio@gmail.com

================================================================================

Whats up with this trip yr going on tomorrow?
I’m not going on a trip, that’s everyone else.
Oh shit you’re not going?
I can’t go man I just went to S.F. like not too long ago. I can’t just stay doing that shit. I wish.
Well how was the S.F. trip?
It was sick man. The best weather. I’d never been out there. It was chill.
Who’d you go with?
I went with my friend Nick, who used to live there, and just skated with all his homies everyday.
You smoke?
Yeah I fuckin smoke.
Why you move to New York?
I don’t know I just like skating out here. You don’t have to drive, just good spots, and good homies, I guess.
What’d you think the first time you met Johnny?
I don’t even remember. I thought he was some quiet kid at first but then I realized he’s just a little shit talker. Little fucker.
Least favorite thing about NY
Well right now it’s snow, sucks dick. I don’t fuckin know, there’s a lot of shitty things out here. But it’s good enough for now, I mean I like New York.
Don’t you make shit out of metal or shit? Sculptures or some shit?
Nah I just work at a metal shop at my school. I mean I have all the facilities to make shit when I wanna make shit. Like furniture whatever.
Ever make a flat bar? Or anything to skate?
Yea, that one at Fat Kid I made.
That explains why it’s so high. That’s a fat one.
Yea well its like the best flat bar ever so.
Ever been to New Jersey?
Jerz. Yeah I mean briefly. I mean it’s sick. I want to spend more time in Jerz. I want to go skate there. I’ve never really gone in the streets in Jerz and skated.
Yo just come out. Spee. Favorite skater from Jersey?
That’s a hard one. Guess I gotta say Fred Gall.
Good answer. Strongest skater in New York?
Strongest? I don’t know there’s a lot of like pussy skaters in NY you know. Just kidding. There’s not like some real power like Austin Kanfoosh, or like Nik Stain shit you know. But there are a lot of good skaters, but when I think of power I think of like Austin Kanfoosh you know. There’s a lot of good skating but…
No not the most powerful skating, just who is the strongest physically?
Probably like Aaron Herrington for sure.
Is that dude strong?
He’s just like really good.
Where you been skating lately with everything snow covered and shit?
Well definitely House of Vans, but we’ll get a dry day every couple weeks. It’s been pretty fucked for the past like month so, pretty much House of Vans. That’s it.
Where did you learn to tre flip?
Ha dude that’s brain dead. I don’t know, I fuckin saw it and started to try it. I know like fucking people think I have a weird treflip. I don’t fuckin know.
Ever go out of the country to skate?
I’ve been to like Spain and England and shit. Skated like South Bank and all the spots in Barcelona when I was like 15 or 16. Shit’s the best. Trying to go back.
Getoz or Molly?
Getoz dumbass.
What was the last heroic thing you did?
One time I was on mushrooms with my friend and he fell in the river like on top of a waterfall. and I instinctively grabbed his arm so he wouldn’t get sucked down the waterfall. Fuckin weird. I don’t think he would have died, but he was gonna be fucked for sure.
Shout outs?
All the homies. Sideyard homies. Beef Patty homies. All the homies at Supreme, Jahmal, everyone I skate with and hang out with.

================================================================================

Chris Peterson and Elijah Akerley are two of the most progressive skaters Maine has seen in some time. It just so happens they ride for the same board company, Bump, out of New Jersey. But, they’re not your average skate homies. Chris has a good 4 or 5 years on Elijah, but Elijah skates like an adult, so it all works out. Check these to out, I’m sure you’ll see both of them in the future.- Travis
How long have you guys known each other and how did you meet?
EA:
I’ve known Chris for about four years. We became really good friends when he opened up a skate shop in Augusta called Capital City Skate, and I started riding for them.
Did you guys hit it off right off the bat? Chris is a few years older than you, but skating can bring anyone together right?
EA:
Chris and I clicked right off. He was older than me and really pushed me in skating. At first he was really intimidating. Hanging out with “Peterson” was an honor, then I kinda grew up ha.
CP:
I feel like age in skating does not matter, because no matter what you’re having fun.
How did you get connected with Bump Skateboards, and where are they out of?
CP:
I won a contest “Schooled Series” in New Jersey and after that they offered to put me on the team. They are located right out of Newark, New Jersey.
Did Chris help get you on Bump, or did you already know some of the other riders?
EA:
I’m not gonna lie, if it wasn’t for Chris I would not have gotten on Bump. Chris and I went out to some contest in New Jersey and the whole Bump team was there, I already knew two of the riders. Afterwards, they hooked me up with a board and a shirt, and told me to film a “Welcome to the Team” clip in the park. Looking back, I hate that video.
CP:
I introduced him to them, but his skills really put him on.
Must be pretty cool to have the kid you skate with the most be on the same board company. Does that motivate you?
EA:
Hell yeah! Whenever we went on trips to New York or Philly, I wasn’t just some scared kid in the back of the bus or waiting at a spot for someone to get a trick. Chris would encourage me to try this or go for that. It’s sick and he still does that in Maine too.
CP:
It’s awesome, most of my skate homies are on the team or just hang out with the team.

================================================================================

By Renan Garcia
What’s your go-to trick?
Lurdo:
I wouldn’t say I have a go-to trick, haha. But I’ve always loved doing flips and impossibles since I was a kid.
Kiko:
I wouldn’t really know, but maybe a backside Smith.
What’s your worst trick?
Lurdo:
There are tons of tricks I can’t do, obviously. But the hardflip has always been one of those tricks I’ve struggled with a lot to make it look decent.
Kiko:
For example, I can do an impossible but it takes a lot of effort.
D
o you have any stories about traveling together?
Lurdo:
There are always stories when skating the streets of Madrid, especially at night. The funniest recent one with Kiko was a morning after a night out in downtown Madrid. It was around 38°C (100°F), and he wanted to go to the mountains to swim, while I wanted to hit the pool since it was way closer. One thing led to another, and we ended up at a Chinese shop buying a one meter inflatable pool and some cartons of wine. We spent the whole morning in a park in the city center, soaking with our butts in the pool.
Kiko:
There are plenty, although many of them aren’t the kind of thing you’d share in an interview like this. One that comes to mind right now is a night hopping between rock bars and clubs with this guy in a wheelchair we ran into and took along with us. Hours later, we found out he wasn’t actually in a wheelchair— it was all just a performance!
Who’s your favorite skater?
Lurdo:
Kiko, Alain Saavedra, and Felipe Bartolomé.
Kiko:
I can’t think of anyone specific right now, but for example, Mark Gonzales.
Any sponsors, projects?
Lurdo:
I don’t have any projects at the moment—just skating comfortably and staying injury-free is enough for me. As for sponsors, Sk8land has been supporting me for many years, so I want to send them a huge shoutout—they’re the best! I ride Nineties decks and wear Volcom clothing.
Kiko:
I am supported by Nineties Skateboards from Madrid, a really cool clothing brand called 13, and Mesa Distribution helps me out with trucks and other gear. As for projects, I don’t have many because I don’t have much time or know many people to film with. But I’ve had an almost finished video part for a while now, and I hope it comes out soon.
What hobbies do you have outside of skating?
Lurdo:
Besides skating, I have a punk band called Patinetas Podridas, where I play bass with some friends from my childhood skatepark. That and skating are what I spend most of my time on. For work, I’m a web and graphic designer at a small agency in Madrid.
Kiko:
I’ve got a few hobbies, but lately, I’ve been really into photography—especially nature and wildlife photography. I’ll be publishing some of it somewhere soon.

================================================================================

So this is your first time being interviewed huh?
Yeah. It feels like when the Doctor grabs your balls and tells you to cough.
You were born and raised in Greys Ferry, Philadelphia?
Yessir. HW (Shamus’ neighborhood block nickname) all day. I haven’t gone very far.
What was it actually like growing up skating philly as a kid?
Never a dull moment. It was a blessing. Even the crazy occurrences you find yourself being around. There’s so much history here you can always dig and find new old stuff to skate. Or stories to get you hype.
Do you have any stories or remembering seeing anyone back then?
I was a little late on the scene but Damian Smith going full speed through wherever we were skating be it Love or City Hall is a vivid memory for me. He would just seem like he was passing by and he’d sit on a long nollie lipslide on the way out.
Nocturnal played a big part in your adolescent years, who picked on you the most and how did that shape you into who you are today?
Whoever had the most hours at the shop honestly. It showed me the community of skateboarding. And that it ain’t all about just riding your board.
What’s your favorite memory from Noc street jams?
Squading up in the morning with the new anniversary tee on and setting up. Then seeing people blast tricks in the middle of 4th and Bainbridge.
I first remember seeing you as a city hall kid, do you trip on city hall being completely gone and how drastically philly has changed over the years?
I do more and more as the days go by. Philly is nonstop construction now, so Muni seems to be next. We really had it made.
In your opinion who are the architects of Philly?
That’s a big list….
So when you finally left Philly and went on a China trip with the boys, you tried some unique cuisine?
If you’re talking about a pigeon head then yes. It was cooked though. I’m not an Ozzy impersonator.
Why does it take you so long to figure out what you’re getting from the papi store?
Cause I gotta look around for them papi store exclusives
With social media playing a large part these days, I notice you rarely ever post yourself skating? Do you think there is a healthy balance? Or do you not even think about it?
I just ran out of space on my phone. I try not to get to wrapped up in it. There’s a balance with everything and that’s different for everybody.
With that said, what do you think makes a good video part these days?
The music and vibe of it is big for me. Since there’s so much to see out there these days I find the direction of what’s being put out to be crucial. It’s dope seeing people work hard on specific projects.
Do you think your current part we are wrapping up for my video falls under any of those haha?
I know my footage is in good hands. You definitely keep me on track more than I do right now.
Well I can’t wait for people to see what you’ve been working on. Any last shout outs?
Shoutout everybody doing their thing in Philly and beyond. Everybody at Nocturnal past and present. TOPX. You, Brian and anybody else I’ve crossed paths with thanks to skateboarding.

================================================================================

What trick do you wax the most for?
Blunt slides for sure.
Do you ever worry things are too waxed?
Sometimes. In Cali everything is waxed to hell. It’s kinda scary. Or if someone waxed the top for lipslides, that could take someone out.
Why use wax? Can’t you just go faster?
If you go real fast and try to back nosegrind on a dry ledge you’re gonna die.
Where do you get wax?
Anywhere. I usually don’t buy it. Sometimes I’ll find some left behind at a spot. Around Christmas I took a bunch out of those bags people line their driveway with. They were big candles too. I’m good for a minute.
Best wax from corner store?
Anything without the beads. Also a lot of candles only have the good wax on the outside but when you try and use it, it crumbles into pieces because of the soft core. So anything solid works best. You usually can’t go wrong with a basic candle stick.
Best brand skate wax you’ve seen?
The Shake Junt chicken wax is actually really good. It’s real hard and doesn’t fall apart. Gulf wax is the best though. It’s not a skate wax, but it goes on real thick, and you get a piece the size of a brick for about $4.00 at Walmart. Only problem is that it’s too soft for really hot summer days.
Ever mix your own wax? Add anything?
Only once. I had all those candles that were made from those annoying beads that fell apart. So just melted it all down and made perfect pocket sized discs. I didn’t add anything really. I always thought about trying to figure out how to make wax that doesn’t melt at such a low temperature. Just haven’t got around to it. Someone else should just do it, I have no idea how.
Best substitute for wax?
Paint, clear coat, a slice of pizza or maybe even soap? I’m not sure about that one.
How do the following factors affect wax usage: type of wax, material, temperature?
Sometimes I’ll find these soft greasy candles at the dollar store. They are great for the winter, but more specifically the front of the ledge where your wheels rub on tail slides. Sometimes the harder waxes make it stick for tail slides in the cold. The hard wax also collects salt and dirt. The soft greasy shit keeps it buttery. But in the summer, that shit turns to liquid and it’s useless.
As for material, aluminum and wood suck to grind so I’m sure any wax will help. A brick ledge might need some extra help if it’s not the beveled brick. Might beed to rub brick it or clear coat it before you even wax it depending on what kind of brick. Angle iron always seems to grind with minimal wax. Granite ledges will need a lot of wax when they are new and still sharp, but as they round out, they seem to need less.

================================================================================

What’re we up to right now?
Not much. Tried to skate, rained, hung out at Uprise.
I interviewed you last year and you were finishing up filming your
Pavement
part with your brother Blake. What have you been up to since then?
Basically just really enjoying a lot of the same, skating, and filming. Worked on this intro part for Huf that just came out pretty recently.
And you’ve gotten to travel out of the country for the first time?
Yeah, I got to go to Puerto Rico and then Japan with Huf.
Leaving the country for the first time can be hectic and trippy, how was it?
It was fine. I adapted and had fun skating and all that. Puerto Rico was mellow, but in Japan I don’t think my jet lag went away until the day we left. I’ve never experienced a big time difference like that.
Who was all on that Japan trip?
Justin Drysen, Caleb McNeely, Mason Silva, and Tyler Cichy filming. Nice little mellow crew.
Skating can be a bust in a lot of parts of Japan. Any bad run-ins with security or cops?
Well we weren’t really in Japan as a priority to skate street more so premiering the Puerto Rico/Mason intro vid. We skated in Osaka a bit, and yeah it was a quick bust but nothing gnarly or anything.
Kinda sucks that once you finally get to travel we’re currently dealing with this Corona Virus.
Yeah, Huf has been hooking it up with the trips. We were supposed to go to Milan soon, but that trip is now cancelled because of the virus.
So were you tripping? Afraid of getting infected?
Ehh.. I guess fuck it, wash your hands, and try not to think about it too much. I don’t know how I feel about it yet, we’ll see in the weeks to come.
Welp as sketchy as it is this was during winter in Chicago, so nice to escape the cold at least?
Yes, but I spent a lot of winter in LA too when not traveling other places.
Do you even like skating in LA or just fleeing winter?
I have the most fun skating in Chicago for whatever reason, all my friends are here. But I’m obviously down to skate wherever.
Who do you mostly skate with?
My brother Blake, Brett Weinstein, Timothy Johnson.
So with the virus putting traveling to somewhat of a halt and just getting back from LA a few days ago, what are your upcoming plans?
Going to continue living in the Chicagoland area, kick it with friends, and a lot of skating since the weather is starting to get better. I’d like to travel some more but with Corona we’ll see.
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it?
Yeah, I’m down to just stay here if need be.
I mean you’ve filmed two parts in less than a year mostly in Chicago so it’s gotta be working for ya.
It’s just not as blown out as other cities, obviously way less than anything in California. We’re still finding spots all the time. Even the most popular spot here, only so much has been done. Plus I just think stuff here looks cooler, more obscure. It’s the best but still low-key.
What is a blown/played out spot that you’ll always still like no matter what?
Hmmm, I’m sure there’s a bunch, but I’d say LA High. It’s classic.
As a kid growing up in the Chicagoland area, who did you look up to?
Definitely Marisa Dal Santo, Steve Purdue, Andy Sisomboune, and Dave Ruta.
Nice, that about wraps it up. Thanks and praise?
Ugh, I always feel like shout-outs are kind of cheesy or corny or whatever. Plus there’s just like a ton of people that have helped me out, so I’m just gonna be forgetting a bunch. I guess I’ll just say my family, friends, Uprise crew, everyone who hooks me up, and so many more.
Lastly, I’ve seen this in the comments and a few people have asked me: Why do you look so pissed when you’re skating?
Haha, I don’t know. I can’t help what my face looks like when I skate. I’m not mad, I just have resting pissed face.

================================================================================

What was the skate scene like growing up in Virginia?
Ha! The skate scene was pretty much me.
You didn’t have shops or anybody to show you the way?
My friend gave me a board in like 6th grade. But I lived on a dirt road so I’d go two miles down the road to these abandoned tennis courts and skate there. Until I got a mini ramp.
Did you ever try to get sponsored, or think about trying to be a skateboarder instead of a photographer?
I mean I guess in the early days of course, but I was always pretty shitty at skating haha. So it wasn’t an attainable goal.
So when did you first pick up a camera?
Maybe like 11th grade or something, I guess I just wasn’t interested in anything in school and was pretty over it, but then I took a photo class. Then all of a sudden I was showing up to school an hour early to print in the darkroom and stay an hour after to develop film. I was just super stoked on it immediately.
Did you go to college for photography or anything?
I did actually. My first year was really based on the fact that the east coast skate scene was all in Philly and so I wanted to go to a school out there. But I ended up deciding to not go to Drexel or Temple or anywhere in the city, and went to this school Beaver College. Maybe I should have just gone to the city, haha. It sucked so bad, I had to take the train in on weekends to skate Love, which I did all the time. But I just hated the school and the people there so after that I went to Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, which was in-state so a hell of a lot cheaper so super glad I did that.
Do you think it’s worth it for kids to go to college for photography if they want to shoot skating as a career?
No. Not at all.
That’s usually the answer.
I mean I learned a lot a stuff, and it was super valuable, but do I apply it to my day to day life? Like as a photographer who is mostly involved in the skateboard world? Not really. I was always shooting skating for fun, and then I would do class work that was more art related, but whenever I showed photos
of skating in my classes everyone was like, “I don’t know why you’re wasting your time with this shit. Of course my art career never went anywhere, so luckily skating worked out haha.
Do you remember yr first published photo?
I guess there was several iterations of it, depending on what you consider published. I had a photo printed in a zine that was made by this college kid in my home town. I don’t even remember the name of the zine now, but that one got me psyched! Then when I was in college I started sending photos to Thrasher and Transworld a little bit, but mostly Slap. I don’t know why but I guess Slap was just most my vibe. The first photo was actually in Thrasher of this contest, “Beast of the East” they called it. It was Chris Cole doing a benihana to fakie on a quarter pipe with a helmet on.
Ha! Holy shit.
Yup, haha. But they had sent a bunch of photographers out there to shoot the contest
and I just randomly sent that in and they ran
it in the article. Which I’m sure some people were not too psyched on. Then the next photo, which I kind of considered the one I’m most proud of, or at least first photo I was proud of having published. It was my friend Will Lee in Charlottesville, Va. back tailing this shitty ledge against this crusty building and we called the spot the New York Grinder, cause it looked like it was in NYC. And it was a gallery in Slap, like a two page spread. So I was super stoked on that. Then Joe Brook called me and is like, “We’re super stoked on your stuff, keep sending it in.”
Hell yeah, and then Slap became yr first job in skateboarding right?
Yeah so after that I stopped submitting to other mags, and was like I’m all in for Slap. So I would pitch them a bunch of article ideas, which they didn’t pick up until the third try. One of them was the Richmond, VA. skate scene and then the next one was a road trip, where my friends and I each saved up like $500
and we drove around the country for a month, just camping and shit. I think we might have stayed in motels like two nights. Slept in the bushes in laguna beach, it was pretty rad. But I was basically thinking I’d get to California and meet a bunch of pros and shoot them and that would be the article, haha. Of course we didn’t meet any when we got there!
And they turned both those down?
Yes, and then after that I went to DC and did an article called “The Forgotten City” it had all those dudes that were super sick in the early 90s and they were still skating, but the scene had kind of died out cause of Capital and whatever. So I did a thing with like all those guys and then a bunch of young dudes, up and comers, and then Slap ran that and it was like fourteen pages. After that they put me on retainer.
Solid. Did you have to visit SF ever when you were working for them or were you just the East Coast guy?
I was really just the East Coast guy. I mean they would fly me out like once a year. But I was basically just on my own the whole time. Sometimes they’d ask me to shoot with so and so, and I didn’t even know the guy at all. So they had me move to Philadelphia and it was pretty tough man. I mean there was already a couple photographers, and all these skaters I didn’t know, that I was supposed to be shooting with. It took awhile before anyone was really down to start shooting with me, you know? Like Kerry Getz, Mike Maldonado, Josh Kalis, any of those, but eventually I did. Kalis was my first cover actually on Slap.
So who were some of yr favorite people to skate with when
you were living in Philly?
I mean honestly I liked shooting with my friends the best. Like the up and comers, Jack Sabback and Rich Adler, and then I really liked shooting with Ricky Oyola. He showed me the time of day pretty early on so that was sick. It was totally inspiring shooting with him, cause I had always watched him growing up and all that.
So what are yr favorite and least favorite parts of living in New York?
Favorite parts are definitely the energy and how everything looks and feels, it’s just super inspiring. I love running into people on the street that I know, cause even though it’s such a big place that sort of thing happens all the time. It’s just a good vibe out here, super positive. As far as what I don’t like, that’s garbage on the street.
What made you move from Slap to Skateboarder?
I guess part of it was money, part of it seemed like the right thing to do at the time because the Skateboard Mag had just started and they had stolen O’Meally and Barton from Skateboarder. So they’re sitting there with no staff photographers and they had a lot more clout than Slap honestly by that point. I think Slap was on a downward trajectory and everybody knew it, and Skateboarder basically said they’ll fund all my travels so I kind of figured that was the way to go. So it was a rough breakup with Slap but in the long run I think it was the right thing to do.
If you could guess, why do you think both these magazines eventually went under?
Haha, I hope it wasn’t cause I was involved! I mean it’s tough man. The reason Skateboarder went under is because they’re parent company bought Transworld so then they had two skate mags and they decided to put Skateboarder out of business since the ad deals from Transworld were better. But everyone liked Skateboarder.
What are yr thoughts on the current state of print mags?
I don’t know, I guess Thrasher’s doing fine… But I love magazines and I hope they’re around as long as possible. I mean I think there’s still a market for print and people do still like it. But people are also really harsh critics in skating, so people tend to hate on stuff all the time. But I love all of them, I mean they all publish my photos haha.
It’s a weird time, everyone’s turning into books, or bi- monthlys…
Yeah I mean for the first time I’m sitting on stacks of photos, well hard drives of photos, that can’t get published because there’s too many photographers and not enough pages. Also I guess not being a staff photographer has its disadvantages. There were years where I could guarantee that anything I sent in would get run which was pretty amazing. But now that is definitely not the case.
So would you rather never publish another book or never post anything on social media again?
Haha! Fuckin a man that’s a tough one. Honestly from an idealist standpoint I would definitely say I’d only do books, but from a practical standpoint I’d have to do social media cause that’s where I get a lot of my business from. It’s almost more important than having a website these days so it’s kind of hard to say no to it.
It’s true, it’s unavoidable at this point.
It sucks don’t get me wrong, but it’s ingrained into our society. So unless something drastic happens I think social media is gonna be king, sad but true.
So I’m trying to avoid talking about National Geographic since I’m sure you’re sick of talking about it. But what was the shittiest part of the whole process? Did the editors have any idea about skateboarding?
They had no idea about it at all, but they were super down to listen to what I had to say and were so easy to work with. It was just such a positive experience so it’s hard to focus on the negative parts of it.
Totally, so are you satisfied with the project as a whole? Do you think you reached a lot of people who wouldn’t have seen skateboarding otherwise?
You know that’s a great question. I wish there was some way to measure the number of non skaters who bought the book. I mean if you read the book, it’s kind of written for the general public. There’s a lot of explaining and stuff that a skater wouldn’t need explained. But that was kind of the purpose to be like a bridge between the cultural gap of the average joe and anyone who skates. Try to give a little more understanding to the lifestyle we live and stuff. Cause there’s just still so much hate towards skateboarding. I guess there’s some type of attractiveness to that, but at this point for me I’m so tired of getting kicked out and shit. I’m just tired of confrontations with heroes on the street, it drives me fucking crazy. And you go to foreign countries and the property owner comes out and is like holy shit this is awesome! Please skate that rail! You know, that’s so sick. Or at least a way better experience than getting the cops called on you.
You know how many countries you’ve been to?
I mean I guess I could count em up, but definitely over thirty. Not that much in the grand scheme of things. I mean they’re all skatable. My friend was just in Antarctica and ollied down a three stair, I think he’s the first person to skate there.
Has there ever been a trip that just totally failed?
As far as like blowing an assignment or whatever I guess if I had to say one it’d be 2006 in Morocco. It was just really tough and we drove a lot and I think Kenny Reed only got like one photo. It was just so rugged man, the whole crew was having melt downs and shit. So then I extended my stay and shot a bunch in Spain and made the article with a story about Morocco, even though like sixty percent of the photos were shot in Spain. I mean I used to write like fictional stories.
Really?
I mean a lot of my Skateboarder articles were just like made up stories. I guess I took a page out of Nieratko’s book, he was always writing about his grandmother in England or something. So I was like fuck it I’m gonna write about whatever the hell I want to.
It’s better that way, one time we did an article that was just an omelette recipe.
That’s dope, that’s like scarfing material. You ever heard of that? It was like an old column in Thrasher, it was in my first skate magazine from like August, 1990. But anyway they had a monthly column of basically just recipes. I mean a lot of them were fucking disgusting, but some of them were real. My mom actually still uses this rosemary potato recipe, there’s a page of Thrasher in my moms recipe book, no joke.
That’s amazing. Anything specific yr trying to accomplish in 2017?
I guess more foreign trips, cause they’ve been harder and harder to get going in the last couple years. I really love adventures, so any sort of thing that involves that vibe I want to do more of.
So any words of advice for the skate photographers of the future?
Whoooo, I don’t know. I guess I would say if you’re not passionate about it then you’re probably not going to do it very well.

================================================================================

When did you first pick up a camera and what made you want to shoot skateboarding?
when I was 14, I got a little point and shoot 4mp camera. I actually didn’t even think of shooting skating til I was 17 but yea classic story I skated so I shot my friends skating.
Who inspires the way you shoot and approach skate photography?
When I first started looking at skate photos I don’t think I actually once thought about who shot a photo, I was just like this one is awesome or this is sick. The first person I learned the name of and thought about was Daniel Harold Sturt. Legend. His shit just has always made me try to make every photo feel unique.
You’ve had the opportunity to shoot a lot of photos for DC shoes, does that feel like a dream come true?
It’s definitely been dope, getting to go on trips to different countries for skating is a dream for sure. I loved DC when I was a kid so it’s all pretty surreal, It’s a great thing. I’m pretty hyped on everything I have gotten to create for them.
Name one time you truly screwed a photo up and didn’t have the heart to tell the skater.
I accidentally deleted a photo of Jaakko Ojanen that was a banger, he doesn’t know yet. If you read this sorry g we will get more bangers.
What was it like growing up and skating in Orlando?
Hot and humid. I totally believe all the best skaters from FL skate better in other places because they aren’t melting after being used to it for so long. It may have worn off me at this point though.
Have you ever entered a contest? What place did you get?
Yea a couple skatepark ones when I was a kid, I actually entered the èS game of skate at S.P.O.T. one time and did pretty well. 7th place out of like almost 200 people.
You filmed a full part with Zach Moore in “Transplants”, what was the one trick that got away while filming?
Pretty funny but I used to do 5-0 360 flip out’s a lot when I was younger. I stuck it probably 7 or 8 times on the Delancey median ledge in the city. Was gonna be my last trick but way she goes bud.
5 reasons why Taco Bell or Chipotle is better than the other.
A: Hold on dude you trying to compare a tier 1 and tier 2 fast food to each other? I won’t stand for that shit, if I see another what’s better In-N-Out or Shake Shack article I’m gonna square up. How you gonna compare a fucking $3 burger to a $9 one? I’ll hit T-Bell if I’m trying to only spend $5, I’ll hit Chipotle if I’m trying to steal hot sauce.
What is your go-to order at Wendy’s?
Crispy Chicken BLT 4for4 for sure and maybe a JBC if I’m really bout it bout it.
So you’ve been off soda for a while now, what made you put down those sugary beverages?
It was just for 2018, a personal challenge. I drank mad soda my whole life and just felt like I couldn’t eat any food without it so I had to cut it fully. I will have a coke here and there since this year started but I dont need it now and can’t even drink too much of it.
Anyone you’d like to shoutout?
Mr. Wilson, Shanahan, Jamie, Mom, everyone at DC, Bronze56k, Quasi and all the other friends and brands who have supported me so far.

================================================================================

Interview by Smalls.
Photos by Toby Angel.
Jimmy P already ran through most of the early history in your Skate Talk interview a few years ago. You basically grew up in Capitol Heights, MD?
I was born uptown (DC) on Fairmont Street, but we ended up in Capitol Heights around 1986 or ’87.
And you got into skating through BMX?
What happened was, I was riding BMX bikes. My mother had bought me a skateboard for Christmas, but it was a big Executioner board. I didn’t really know what to do with it, just sit down and ride down a hill. I had an aunt who lived in Alexandria, and there was a kid in her neighborhood named Stephen and him and his friend had skateboards. I noticed that their skateboards were in some of my BMX magazines, in a California Cheapskate ad. So I asked my mom to buy me one of those boards. At first she thought I was crazy asking for a $100 board. She winded up ordering me a Jeff Kendall, Indy’s, OJs, and Vans, the whole nine yards. Then I started getting Thrasher magazines and I really got to see what other people were doing. That’s around the time when this guy Khalise moved to my neighborhood. I remember the first time we saw each other, he thought we were about to jump him, so he ran. We caught up to him and eventually became really good friends. He went on to tell me about the skaters in his old neighborhood around Potomac Ave – Adam Harding, Jesse Caldwell, his brother Graham. This was also around the time my first little crew started fading away and getting into other things. I was like, skating is what I fell in love with, this is what the fuck I want to do right here. Khalise took me to Adam’s house off Potomac Ave, and I was just stoked to meet another black skater that lived in DC. I had no idea about other black skaters here.
So there was a crew of black skateboarders in that neighborhood in the mid to late 1980s?
There was. It was Khalise, Adam, Jesse, Graham, this dude Patrick, Khalise’s brother Aziz, Randy Corey, Tim Bullock, Ron Parcells, Ahmed Dasha.
What do you think sparked that interest?
At first, I really wanted to surf, and that was definitely from movies, clothes, all that.
I guess skating is sort of the next best thing if you don’t have access to an ocean.
I can remember really clearly that the environment I was living in – I didn’t want to participate in that. For sure. So I found skating, fell in love with it, and once I really knew this is what I wanted to do, I found a group of friends that was for it, and it got me out of that environment. And that was a nice, peaceful thing. And remember, this is the height of the crack epidemic. I saw all of that shit go down.
So after I met Adam and all those dudes, we skated from his house near Potomac Ave metro station over to Jesse’s house in the Lincoln Park area. We get to Jesse’s house, and he’s got a little launch ramp. Brian Tucci pops up because he’s friends with all of these guys too, but he was from the North Capitol area, up by the hospital. When I first saw him, it was just like, “what is going on here?” Here I am, knowing how to ollie, kickflip, but still just learning. And this guy is doing two foot no-complys, ollieing over the launch ramp, and looking really, really good. Like damn, this is what I’m doing now, this is how all this shit comes together. We worked our way over to Archives, and it was just a bunch of skaters. Archives used to be more jumpin then Pulaski. When I say it was poppin, it was poppin, everybody was there: Steve Teague, Sheffey, Sonny Dukes, Ray Llanos, Hojin, this kid Kevin from Seven Waves, Dave Lim’s brother Jerry, obviously Pep, Chris Hall, Andy Stone, Jim Gordy, Eben Jahnke, this dude Jay Madrid. Like these were the guys before us, we stayed the fuck out of their way. So I’m intimidated now. I just sat the fuck down.
Had you seen any of these guys before?
Nah, nah, I had only seen skating in the Powell videos that my mom would order on tape.
And a lot of that footage was out in California and beyond.
Right. And so in my mind, that’s what I’m thinking, that’s where all the skating is going down. Ain’t no skating in Washington DC.
I wanted to ask about this Capital Skateboards ad (Pooch, Andy Stone, and Pepe Martinez walking down the sidewalk facing the photographer).
That photo was taken by Randy Bobbit. Randy is my brother. We took that photo up on F Street, back when it was jumpin, back when it had some substance, you know what I’m sayin. So that’s why the photo was taken the way it was taken. And there’s another one where we’re sitting and laughing on a cellar door, which was another Capital ad from the same day. This was in the beginning – letting people know this was happening. Right after we were all on Element together.
The Andy Stone Chrome Ball Incident interview goes into plenty of detail about founder Mike Agnew and the demise of Capital, but I was wondering what your perspective was?
What’s crazy is – do you remember Attitude? The skateshop? The two dudes that ran that shop warned us. Andy was more on the business side than me, I was just a skater. But I was friends with the Attitude guys, and I remember them warning us. I was just in Andy and Pep’s back pocket. But I never got a genuine vibe from that guy, never any genuine love. And then I got kicked off Capital.
Did he give you a reason?
He didn’t want to be straight up, but it was me. I wasn’t producing. In the beginning, I was stoked, he’s flying me here and there, going on tour. But my partying got out of hand. So that was that. But I already knew he just wanted Pep and Andy for his little thing.
Good on Pep and Andy for bringing you along with them.
This is our boy, we want him on the squad. But yea, I’ll be the first to admit ‘98, that’s when Pooch was just gone. I lost sight. My partying just got out of control. Which led to addiction. At that point I’m not even partying, now I need drugs just to function. So that’s how that went down. I have to give Johnny Schillereff a shout out. When I skated for Element, he really took care of me. He took care of all of us. When they started Capital, I could have stayed on Element, but I just thought I should stick with Pep and Andy.
Moving in a less-serious direction, what’s the most dice winnings you’ve walked out of the plaza with in one day?
That’s a great question. $271.
Was that recently or back in the day?
Back in the day I just sold product. We were shooting here and near back then, but it was much more about just selling product than anything. But I remember walking out with $271 just this year.
So what got you into shooting then? Because I always assumed that started in the early days.
We did shoot dice back then, but not like we do today. And really, I’ve just always looked at it as a way of building with the fellas. Building with the younger dudes, I taught them how to play. So it’s bigger than just coming down here and winning money, it’s a gathering. That’s what I really get out of it. I ain’t no hustler or gambler, I really enjoy the people and the shit-talking.
Who’s the best out here?
#1 is Rahzel. You have to know the game to play with him. I enjoy shooting with Rahzel. But I’m not gonna say Hojin, because he…it can get personal with him.
Like your friendship is on the line.
Exactly, because this is what he does. So I’m not gonna say Hojin. But I also can’t leave him out. Does that make sense?
He’s in his own category.
Right. But it’s definitely a newer thing – like Cairo know the game, Haneef, Hudson. But I remember Rahzel clearly, he always wants to get it poppin. And when Kevin ain’t skatin, when he’s winding down, he’s ready to shoot. I know I’m missing people, though.
I also wanted to touch on the old MLK Library. I feel like that spot doesn’t get talked about and a lot of younger dudes today don’t even know it existed.
Honestly, MLK for me was a dope spot, but when it was poppin, I was in and out. So if my homies were up there skating when I showed up, I’d skate, but it was never like “meet me at MLK”. That just wasn’t my spot.
But you still got something there for
DC’s 411 Metrospective
?
That was one of those days. Didn’t really skate, but I popped up and got a clip. Probably someone else’s board. Like that 180 nosegrind at the hung jury ledges, I remember that clearly. I wasn’t even skating then, Reda just called me like “I’m in town, let’s get a photo!”
Anything you want to close with?
I want to show love and gratitude for Brian at Crushed Skateshop, Maury from Venue Skateshop, Tyler Tufty, Stevie Williams, and Pulaski generations young and old.

================================================================================

Interview by Tommy Berlin.
Where does the story start for you?
I grew up in Northern Quebec, pretty much in the woods.
When did you make the move to Montreal?
I had been skating hard since I was about 10, and I was just over being around people who were only into cars so I moved into the city when I was 16.
Did you play any sports when you were growing up?
My parents kept me really active, which I’m super thankful for. I did a lot of skiing, swimming, soccer and stuff like that, rollerblading too when I was really young. I played a shit ton of sports.
Did you just start off solo when you started skating?
I’d be solo or I would try and tag along with my brother and his friends, but they were a bit older and I couldn’t always hang.
When did sponsors start coming in for you?
I got on a shop up north, and then when I moved to the city Vans started hooking me up pretty soon.
Did it change skating for you at all? Did you start going on trips right away?
It sort of did. I got second place at this contest when I was 16 and that gave me enough money to just go to California for six months. I went to SF for pretty much the whole winter. Then from there I kept going on trips, but paid trips picked up a bit later when I started going on more trips with Dime.
Have there been any places you’ve traveled that really stand out to you?
Probably Europe. It’s just unreal to skate and the lifestyle is incredible.
Any favorite city that you’ve visited?
I mostly want to go to cities that I’ve never been to. I’d go back to Athens. I’d love to skate Portugal too. All my trips were pretty short so we never really got to go to all the spots.
Do you have any stories from those trips?
I mean every day is just special with Alexis, Will, Jake, and Phil. There are just so many hilarious moments. Hiking a volcano to watch it erupt was a nice time. It was on the last night too.
How important is it for you to have these companies support you and help you out?
It’s amazing! They make so many things happen.
Being around you the last little bit I noticed you try to take good care of your mental and physical health. Have you always been conscious of these aspects?
No, not always. I’ve kind of taken care of it as it’s surfaced and as I’ve been ready. It’s a hard thing to face when you’ve pushed it down for a long time and don’t understand it.
What are some things you’ve been doing recently that have helped?
I’ve been going to therapy, meds, medication, for a few. I deal with depression and anxiety, and Bipolar Disorder so there’s a lot of big moods and emotions that can be unbearable at times, that’s just scratching the surface of symptoms though. Self compassion is extremely hard when all you know is self shame and a dysfunctional way of coping.
How has the process of learning about what’s going on with your mental health been?
It’s been crazy. I definitely wish I could have opened up about it and started to address it sooner, since I’ve felt this way forever. There have been very low points, suicidal thoughts, trial and error, and unstable feelings.
You seem pretty careful about what you eat, how does your diet affect things for you?
I’m kind of obsessed with diet and physical exercise. I don’t follow any strict diet, but I’m mindful about what I put into myself.
Are there any hobbies or anything that help you keep your mind at ease?
My mind races so much, but I try to be creative. I like helping others, exercising, and I’ve been working at a thrift store. I’m constantly trying new things. It would be sick to try more natural ways of healing and learn more about it. With everything I do now, I still have bad days.
Thank you for sharing that, I know it can be scary opening up about these issues. I think it’s really important to de-stigmatize mental health issues, is there anything you would like to add for people that might be feeling the same way?
Thanks for asking! If you’re feeling hopeless right now I’d say that you matter. Your thoughts are real for you, even if they aren’t real facts outside of your head. And please reach out for help. I hope to take a class and become a mental health worker of some kind in the future.
What sparked the move to Vancouver?
I had visited on some skate trips and I thought it was cool. I just really wanted to change things up. I was in a really stagnant place in Montreal and was depressed.
Have you been enjoying it here?
Yeah a lot, I like that it’s not that big of a metropolitan city compared to Montreal, so it’s just less overwhelming in general. I’ll probably stay for a while, but I’m not planning far ahead. Honestly going one day at a time mostly.
So the Dime x Vans video is going to be coming out shortly, how was filming for this project?
It was so fun, we filmed in Montreal last summer and we got to go to Miami and Texas before the pandemic.
Is there anybody’s footage you’re looking forward to seeing?
Definitely everyone’s, but I’ll just say Alexis, he’s just on another level.
Do you have any plans for the summer?
I’d like to visit Montreal, but no. Just keep trying to stay as healthy as I can mentally.

================================================================================

Where are we right now?
We’re in St. Louis, Missouri at the brewery I used to work at. I left about six months ago because I wasn’t skating as much. My day was depending on how everybody else’s day at the brewery was going. If a brewer was having a bad day, I was having a late night. I had a bunch of stuff I had to do, but everyone was cool and understood that I just wanted to skate more.
What are the three best things about St. Louis?
I’d say the number one thing to tell people about is the City Museum. If they’ve never been before they’ll seriously never find anything else like it. That shit is so crazy, it’s pretty much an adult playground. Number two is School for the Blind. If you’ve never been to St. Louis to skate I’d say it’s the best ledge spot. It’s such a fun spot. Third, I’d say Imo’s Pizza. I like it a lot, I’ve been stoked on Imo’s for a long time.
Do you feel like you’re more productive filming with your brother Gabe?
My brother Gabe made
St. Losers
and
Comb
. He’s one of the hardest working people. If he’s really stoked on what you’re doing then the camera is out. But if he’s not feeling it, because it doesn’t fit his vision for the video, he’s kinda going to make you ask for it. I don’t like doing that. Filming with Gabe is good, I’m definitely more comfortable filming with him than someone else.
How’d you guys find some of the spots that were in Comb?
In the winter time, when we’re not skating as much, I drive around in and out of alleys looking for spots. Seeing if there’s anything that could potentially be a spot.
How many front porches or driveways do you think you’ve skated through the years?
That’s a really good question. I don’t even know if I can answer that. A ton.
Any crazy encounters with people being bummed on it?
I’ve been pretty lucky for the most part. There was one time where I was looking around for spots and someone came out with a shotgun. That was in South City, which is surprising. It wasn’t even a house, it was a little industrial area. That was scary. There’s also this spot we call the paintball ledge up in north St. Louis. In North City the crime rate is really fucking heavy. Up there, there’s this ledge to drop in between these two really run down houses. It’s really sick. So everyone’s trying to skate this spot, and Gabe says he turned around and this dude is wearing a mask and pointing a gun at him. This dude had walked up with a paintball gun and Gabe had mistaken it for a real gun. This dude started lighting everybody up. I’m pretty sure it’s in the bonus footage of one of Will Rosenstock’s videos. That dude was ruthless.
How’d you first link up with the Bust Crew guys?
I think it happened when Gabe put St. Losers on YouTube. Max Matoon and Will Rosenstock were talking to each other through the comments. So Gabe asked me the following week if I wanted to go to Richmond. We went there and everyone was super hospitable. We stayed at the notorious Dust House. It was a good time and we all kept in touch from then on. It could’ve gone either way since we didn’t know them and they didn’t know us. But they were super welcoming. I don’t really have any intentions of moving out of St. Louis, but if I did, I’d probably go to Richmond. It’s welcoming. It’s a good scene.
Do you feel like St. Louis gets slept on by people coming through the Midwest on trips?
Yeah, I’d say both for skateboarders and musicians. Actually, after
Comb
premiered we had people in town every weekend for over a year. For the most part it was a lot of friends coming through town. The WKND dudes just left town a couple weeks ago. We had like 11 dudes sleeping at our house and it was a total shitshow, but that’s more fun. I’d still say it’s slept on. But at the same time, I kind of like it that way.
What’s up with Deby and Sons?
Deby and Sons
is Preston Harper’s little clothing company. His mom passed away from cancer a while back, so he wanted to do a brand that was related to her in a way. Her name was Deby. He made a team that are a bunch of friends. He’s making t-shirts, I think a lot of it is nostalgic memories that remind him of his mom. It’s sick. That’s why there are graphics with bunnies and wicker furniture. 20% of all the funds go towards cancer research. Preston himself just got cancer removed from his body. When he told us he had it, it hit us really hard. Even though his mom had passed away from cancer, the doctors said it wasn’t a genetic thing at all. They said it was like being struck by lightning. It sucked. As of right now there is no cancer in his body. It was removed.
Any shout outs or last words?
Shout out to everyone at Send Help. Bust Crew and Deep Dish dudes. Anyone that has let us crash at their house. All the WKND guys, they were really good people. All the small brands out there. Jason at Infinity, Gabe Kehoe, Jackie Grucela, Worful, Preston Harper, Randy Ploesser, Joe Herbert, 4Hands Brewing Co, Skate Jawn, and all of my other friends and family.

================================================================================

Life imitates art far more than art imitates life…What’s a work of art that you hope your life imitates?
Well I really hope my life imitates something cool like that movie
Koyaanisqatsi,
but you know, my life probably imitates The Simpson’s or something, that’s what I watched the most of.
Cats or dogs?
I have loved a couple of dogs, but cats are the animals in my life. My new boy’s name is Alonzo.
What’s some music that makes you wanna go skate?
Rage Against the Machine, “Killing in the Name Of.”
What’s some music that gets you in bed?
Rage Against the Machine, “Bulls on Parade.”
What’s your favorite food spot in SF?
Howard’s Cafe.
What’s your favorite skate spot in SF?
Definitely Powell St. Station. I always just loved the way it looked before I even moved to SF, and then when I got here I realized just how dope it is.
Would you do acid with Tony Hawk if given the chance?
Fuck yeah! I wanna know how deep Tony really goes.
If you could skate like anybody else, who would it be?
Bob Burnquist, because of that one frontside flip he did over the mega ramp in his Extremely Sorry part. And I only fuck with skaters named Bob. Bobby Worrest, Bobby Dekeyzer, Bob Gnarly, haha. Kinda kidding, kinda serious about that.
Favorite skateboarder from Boulder?
Guy Omi Benson, the most legendary Boulder skater.
Who’s your favorite kook?
Ryan Jaunzemis! The pro soap shoe guy.
What happens when we die?
That is something that ahhhh…you really gotta believe is gonna be good. Because you know the life you have to live is the life you create while you live it, so you really have a choice in whether or not your afterlife is gonna be good or not, am I right?
Shout out the real ones in your life.
Oh yes. First I shout out my girl Hannah, she’s what keeps me going. Shout out to my close friend Will Garson, I can’t wait to skate with him again. Shout out my brother Jack, without him I never woulda started skating. Also Sam Hines at Meta Skateshop in Boulder. Shoutout to Hans de Haas, that guy is nice. Shout out Colton Light and Terry Worona, these guys are the guys that actually make it happen, so thankful to be in front of their lenses. Finally, thanks to Mom and Dad. Life is so damn great. Ima go skate!

================================================================================

You bring a very different aesthetic to skateboarding, a type of traditional darkroom photography. Seems like you’ve worked a lot with Carhartt and Confusion mag but not with everybody that you could have. Does it seem like everyone understands the type of photography you do and your vision? Or do a
lot of people just not get it?
I don’t know, on one side there is that magazine Confusion which is really something that try to mix different stuff in the skateboard world and gives me opportunity for some stuff, but it’s still in some ways very closed into the showing tricks and mentality of the tricks, that’s why I do my zines and my own stuff. Talking about industry everything is the question of people who is sitting in the marketing world. The industry is something that we should always think about, how much we let ourselves to be owned by them and give our self to take our handwriting and reason to them. You have always certain time the people who works inside, it’s never that completely image and the industry is a lways watching for how to make their own profits bigger…
What does Thanksgiving in the US mean to you?
Wow, it’s very interesting. It’s kind of confusion you know, if you see already the word “thanks” and “giving” is already very confused. Exceptionally since on one side it’s kind of background of natives and taking the land and giving the land and that kind of perfect state, sticking people in different believing just to follow something. But you make it like Christmas as well in America, you have Christmas celebrated by the Jewish people and everybody celebrate Christmas without thinking “What is the Christmas?” and it’s similar like that. You just put one date and people celebrate without thinking what you celebrate. There is also that beautiful part as well but I don’t think it always necessarily need to be under that name and it’s one of very confused days whenever I saw it. And I got super fat on that day.
How was it growing up skating in the Balkans when you did?
I start end of ’80s and it was kind of influenced by affect of a film that was playing in our mainstream cinema. It’s very interesting cause it’s kind of like a Hollywood, like a love story. It actually made Romeo and Juliet story into the skateboard world, there were the Daggers and the fashion kids which is always repeating in skateboarding. That film more or less in the Balkan was always our inspiration in many things. On some ways the whole wave came maybe 30 years later than in California so in that time was a time where also we didn’t have any skateshops so it was based like 30 years before in California. Like you take piece of the wood and rollers and build own things, or you have a luck that you have somebody of the parents or family who live out in Yugoslavia and in that time could bring you something. It was very interesting time and later was also the war time which in some ways break a little bit scene and make some things a little bit difficult but on one side make interesting experience for me. If you have the passion for it, that human thing like when you have the airplane attack and can decide that okay, that parking place where you skate nothing gonna happen there and you can go there to skate. I know many many things was based on that building your own life and sometimes if you want you needed to go far and take it back. Later everything is based on the American mainstream skateboarding culture so the whole building of the scene is based on the 3 or 4 major American magazines which is actually advertising catalogs of the industry so made it like there was less zine culture or subculture, everything is the way of acting and way of dressing very based on the way of what was going on in America.
Did you move straight to Germany from the Balkans?
Yea, I was born in Bosnia. It’s always interesting, I say I was born in a country which doesn’t exist anymore, which is also the reason I’m not so familiar with religions and nationalities. I moved in that time also to a country which later turned to be Croatia. Those 2 countries, Bosnia then Croatia, after maybe 10 years in Croatia I start to visit Germany to visit my mother. I started getting easy going jobs, construction and stuff like that, so that I can come back to Croatia and live good for a couple of months then with the time life start to change and I start to be part of German society and that kind of weird mix of this place and again go through that question of being human and being part of a nation, or someone’s nation or whatever. With time I found so many different challenge for myself to be in Germany. Maybe also because some of those things maybe wouldn’t make in Balkans and I found it very interesting to be in that small industrial town and do something which normally going to be done in cities like Berlin or big cities. Doing art space and invite artists from all around the world to that small city to maybe have their first European exhibition in that city and try to give the sense of the life that it’s more important about what you’re doing than where it is. That was in Heilbron, where I lived for almost 14 years, in those 14 years I was doing it maybe 10 years. In the beginning I was doing punk shows and stuff then from 2003/2004 I start to do different art spaces there.
Now you’re in Berlin, but you’re also traveling a lot. It seems like you like to go to the grittier, rougher places, which Berlin seems to be as far as the architecture, the ground, the skating. What pushes you to travel and what’s better about Detroit than a sunny beach?
I accidentally move to Berlin, actually I didn’t want to settle myself for now somewhere. I have a feeling that in my age it’s kind of that way how I travel and how I’m moving could I do that constantly like that so I want to see as much as possible until my body and my inside power is like that. All my travel is based on the activist and seeing people and sharing with them their space and the possibilities of their space. The less privacy and the less whatever comfortable means to somebody, so your mental and physical situation need to be very strong for such of things. To settle somewhere at the moment I had the luck through the great Berlin scene that they give me opportunity and support and took me with open hands to move there and give me a base for the next time of life. Normally I’m not a big fan of Berlin, which makes it very interesting for me to be there as well and to try and discover that. The roughness of Berlin is illusion and a trademark of the city, which actually is made with that kind of roughness a touristic attraction in the world. That sometimes freak me out with those things, you need really to watch in between to see the reality there. I don’t know if I’m really just for the roughness, interesting you know, cause roughness is also something sad in human life but also goes together with honest of the life. It’s less hide some instinct of the human and his social fall down and aggressiveness of the prophet word and corporations, or the system which sometimes run about people which should be a part of the chain. People who are doing some stuff in those cities are people who are doing because they need to make something and need to share and want to make the small things shining and bright in the life. Doing such of things in cities like Berlin or whatever is mostly built together with commercials aspect so all those things which could be considered alternative, they’re just a trademark on the end as alternative and it’s just a new opportunity for the tourists or people who move to city. The rent prices and it kills the freedom of free mind and pushing the borders of creativity. All those travels is for me reading between the lines of the media and politic worlds and to see the nature, which humans is part of it, and learn myself and learn what is the world.
Now, we’re here in Tel Aviv and we’re on the Weirdo tour…How did this trip come about?
Weirdo came kind of through one of those beautiful things of the skateboarding I think that the part of all the different people from all around the world just of the reason that everybody of us has something to do with that piece of the wood with four wheels. Seeing that above the industry and the commercial things around that, it brings us in some ways together. Francisco had few years ago was interesting to make a documentary about my things. What I’m doing andI dunno, for me sometimes just one more documentary about somebody, I don’t know does the world need that. But I was interesting to collaborate and make something together and one idea was to try to make surreal skate film. We had some ideas to start in this time of the year which was okay, and at least have a starting point of a country where is a war. For me it’s interesting happening in the part of the world where is the biggest surrealism of human. I was very interesting in that aspect to come to this area and to try and work here. For me it was also very important the people who we invited from different sides of the world, I was hoping to also get more people from very different cultures, like people from Japan, but it’s very hard. I’m very glad you made it over because it’s very far and very expensive, but it’s made just on our passion and our believing between all of us and it’s not based on any corporation’s advertising program. I’m glad that all the people made the way here and I’m very thankful for it. I think that that’s also one of maybe weird stamps now a days, sadly but weird stamp in skateboarding.
How long have you had your beard for?
I think somewhere less since I start growing up, I don’t think so much about that. For me it was just a way easy go with the day. I don’t need to wake up in the morning and think is something long or not long, I don’t need to buy any things to shave myself. Also, in the time when I start all those things were animal taste so I didn’t saw the reason why I should shave myself and put all those chemicals on my face.
So you do more than just shoot photos, you also skate, draw, make music, zines, books, how do all of these influence each other or are they all just from one thing?
I tried years ago after to separate those things and to see them from different influence and different way and also using different names and stuff like that for those expressions but I think on the end they are one thing. That’s one of my wishes not to repeat myself so much. Of course when I think there is a sentence repeating in a static ways but I hope not for a long time. Maybe that’s why I’m using the all different ways to take a break of something and can reflect and think on the other and at the same moment one influence the other and give me opportunity to stay back from one thing, and also watch the public space from a different angle. Watch the space of being on the stage, in front, in exhibition space, whatever it is. I would like to use more the word playing, but not only in a childish way, it’s more in the process and creative way. Somewhere between mental statement and losing the mental statement. Sometimes you reflect after what you did and decide are you throwing that in the trash or you go further with that.
What’s next for Sergej Vutuc?
For me? Hope to come out of this religious military country, that’s the big thing, with all my film rolls that I shot.
I hope for that also.
Thanks.

================================================================================

Interview and Photos by Jon Mecca
We do everything together it seems.
Skateboarding, filming, photo missions, and now this interview. I guess we can’t get away from each other, can we?
Nah, I guess not. We’re completely tethered in a way, with us being triplets and all.
We’re originally from Milford, Pennsylvania. How would you describe your skateboarding experience there?
Growing up there was extra challenging, like with any small town. It lacked the spots, a strong scene, and everything else needed for skateboarding to really thrive. In retrospect, it made me more adamant about seeking out more, and venturing out beyond to reach more possibilities. We were really lucky to have a core friend group of skaters in high school, before that I was just skating by myself or with you. Having friends that were better at different types of skating helped me become more well rounded in my own skating.
How did this Nimbus part come about between the both of us?
I was filming another part with a different filmer a few years prior to this project, but the whole thing fell through and none of that footage came out. I kind of gave up on the idea of skating with purpose and putting out a video part for a while. Around early 2021 you randomly called me one day asking about the video and asked when the part was coming out, and I flat-out told you there wasn’t going to be one anymore. You said that as long as we get started right then, there will be a part. The timing felt right to start over from scratch and just stack footage and photos, which you wanted the responsibility of doing both. Ultimately, having those past projects fall through was a blessing in disguise because it led us to doing this project together. In a way it felt like we were making up for lost time, it all came full circle.
What were some challenges
during filming?
The most challenging aspect was sometimes having to do a trick twice. We would often get the clip first, and then shoot a photo of it. After landing something gnarly, the last thing I want to do is try again. The break in time with you switching from filmer- mode to photographer-mode, along with setting up lights or finding an angle can be distracting if I’m in the fs blunt zone. The most ideal situation for me is having another person on the sesh handling filming while you handle the photos, because while you are great at filming, I can tell your heart is more into photography.
Tell us about Nimbus. Would you say being a part of the team was a pivotal moment for you?
I like the graphics, its East Coast roots, and the team. Having somebody believe in me and be hyped on me was really cool. It felt special to ride for a board company like Nimbus considering its legacy in the New York City skate scene in late 80’s and early 90’s with alumnus like Charlie, Bobby Puleo, Jefferson Pang, Peter Bici, Justin Pierce and many more being a part of the company’s history.
Aside from the
skating, you enjoy spot hunting. Tell me about your street spot page on IG and what you look for in spots.
Captivating Crust (@captivatingcrust) happened from just having so many skate spots in my phone but not knowing what to do with half of them. During the pandemic lockdown, I would fill my car up with gas and just drive far to a random city and spot hunt for hours. I’ll even map out some possible spot locations on Google Earth and do a virtual walkthrough of the city, then drive to them in person. I have all these spots in all these different cities, towns, and states. I figured there was more I could be doing than just hoarding some of these spots, and instead use them to connect with other skaters, and network with others who film in the streets. I pay attention to the factors that may lead me to spots, such as changes in elevation and hills could help me find a stair set, handrail, or bank. What I ultimately look for in spots is whether it’s legit and worth taking a filmer or photographer to, or if it’s a warmup spot to take all the homies out to at the beginning of the day.
What are your future
plans?
My future plans are to just keep skating at the best level that I can for as long as I possibly can. Aside from that, just working on some light projects here and there and staying busy. I want to skate more of the New England region and film at more spots besides the NYC area and gain some momentum from there. There are so many spots out there and we’ve only hit the tip of the iceberg.
How do you stay motivated?
What motivates me is just seeing the people around me do good, achieve their goals, and succeed in their dedication. All the homies motivate and inspire me.

================================================================================

What’s up? You said you’re at some family stuff?
Yeah, my brother just arrived from Texas. He is an army veteran of the Iraq War. Super rad to see him.
Sick. Where you from? Where you at?
I live in Staten Island, New York, about 30 minutes away from Manhattan, so I’m pretty much always over there. I grew up skating in the Lower East Side. Staten Island is pretty boring. There is only one known skate spot and that is the ABC ledges. I wanted to see more so I ventured out to Manhattan and that is where I found myself.
How did you get into skating?
I grew up listening to Minor Threat and Black Flag, so punk music and skating pretty much went hand in hand. I saw a lot of kids in the high school by my house skating. It was just the sickest thing I’d ever seen. I wanted to try skating so I begged my parents for a board. I started skating on a crappy Wal-Mart board until they finally gave in and got me a real board. My first real board was a Birdhouse.
How did you get into photography?
Ed Templeton was always an inspiration to me. Him being so big in the art world and also shooting photos of skate trips was always appealing to me. I decided to pick up photography because I wanted to document my life the same way, and look back when I’m older and remember the awesome friends and times I had.
What would your dream photo shoot be?
The Gonz for sure. I’d be so hyped to just roll with that dude all day and shoot stuff. He is super energetic and looks like you never know what to expect when you hang with him. I’ve seen him a couple times skating around NYC in the weirdest outfits on a long board.
Favorite skate destination?
Philly for sure, FDR is my favorite. I skated Love Park a couple times and it felt so good skating there. I used to always watch old Workshop videos and Kalis was definitely a reason I wanted to skate in Philly. Can’t go wrong with the Chinatown buses from NYC to Philly.
What/who are some of your biggest life influences?
Harold Hunter. The dude lived his life making everyone happy by just being himself, enjoying life and skating the way he wanted to. Not giving a shit if anybody was down with him. I feel like there should be a lot more people like that around, especially now a days where people are so uptight about every little thing.
Favorite thing about NYC?
Cheap food, skate spots, crazy people. Mostly the cheap food, haha.
Favorite spots/places in NYC?
DIY spots are always the best, the BQE spot in Brooklyn is hands down my favorite skate spot in NYC. It’s always changing. Some dudes build the craziest shit there. This one time someone made a wall ride out of some plywood and it was the funnest thing ever. Pontus Alv came here and built the bank to wall ride with a little ledge in between, a lot of hammers went down on that. Recently I also saw there was a mini ramp there, but we all know the NYPD snooping around that definitely won’t last too long.
What are your favorite things to shoot besides skating?
I like shooting weird shit I see on the daily. People sleeping on trains, crazy folks, chicks, dead animals. There is so much going on everywhere it’s hard to stay focused on one subject.
Skate set up?
I am skating 8.25 Polar deck, 53mm Spitfire wheels, Indy trucks, Reds bearings.
Camera set up?
Canon 550D, Fisheye, 50mm lens, and some flashes. It’s definitely growing every now and then. My film set up changes from a point and shoot to an SLR depending on what I am shooting.
Last time you wished you had a camera on you?
My friend Eby Ghafarian is always doing some wild shit. We were skating with the Magenta dudes in Brooklyn last winter. He decided to climb up some wall that was super high up. He was at least 20 feet off the ground on this building and I’m just at the bottom super bummed I didn’t have my camera on me. All I am left with is a shitty iPhone photo of that.
Worst part of NY?
The winter time. We have such harsh winter seasons it definitely takes a toll on a bunch of people. Some people don’t let it phase them and I see kids out skating in North Face coats and it’s just crazy.
What’s the roughest place in NYC? The sketchiest?
Oh, I’d have to say the East Village. I’ve seen dudes shoot heroin and some passed out junkies laying around Tompkins a couple times. Skating in a place with used needles laying around and piss stains is definitely not a cool thing to think about, but we live in a crazy world.
Favorite magazines?
Thrasher, hands down. The quality is tight and the photos in there are so gnarly. I got Thrasher ink so I’m down for life.
Favorite photo of NYC?
My favorite photo shot in NYC is Mike O’Meally’s shot of Jeff Pang pushing down the street with his crew in NYC.

================================================================================

Where are you from originally?
I’m originally from Staten Island, NY. I moved around a lot, ending in Point Pleasant Beach, NJ from Florida during the summer of ’99 to stay with my father. Living there from the end of middle school until graduating high school, I was about an hour from both Philly and New York City. I spent every bit of free time between the two to skateboard, shoot, and go to obscure venues for shows.
What was it like growing up skateboarding in Jersey beach town?
Growing up in general can be difficult. In my case I was somewhat on the outs as the “weird art kid.” I was called homophobic slurs constantly and often bullied. I suppose it wasn’t known that my parents are bikers and despite my size I could hold my own. I never liked fighting, or condone violence. I do have a wise mouth and believe that didn’t help matters, although a verbal black eye is far more superior than one given with a punch, and far more rewarding.
When did you find yourself in New York City, and what brought you there originally?
Being originally from New York and having such a love for east coast skateboarding and film culture, I was always drawn to it. There is a grittiness and raw attitude you don’t often see elsewhere. After high school I applied to the School of Visual Arts and moved to Manhattan as soon as possible. There has always been a connection to community, danger, and a sense of belonging I’ve not yet found elsewhere. If you’re looking for it, you can find it in New York. I never looked back…by the way, it’s full, so look elsewhere for residency.
What sparked your interest in skateboarding?
My interest in skateboarding first sparked when I was somewhere between 8-10 years old when my cousin Keith gave me an old complete he had stopped using. He had a great collection of all the original Powell boards I dearly wish either of us had held onto. I remember putting Metallica stickers on and spray painting mine, which was that classic Mike McGill graphic. It was largely based on finding a group of people who were like-minded. Often, they were the artistic or troubled kids. I was a bit of both and never had any interest in team sports. From childhood till this day almost all of my time revolves around some kind of artistic expression; filming, photography, skateboarding, music, fine arts, etc.
What was your first camera? When did you start shooting?
I really started shooting around the age of 12 or 13, making short films and filming skateboarding with my friends on my father’s old VHS camcorder I found in the attic. That Christmas I was given my first Hi8 camcorder and never stopped shooting. From there I saved and bought a Pentax K-1000 for 35mm still photography and still use that model of camera often. I’ve been through so much equipment after that: Digital Hi8, TRV, VX1000, DVX, and all sorts of other digital . and analog moving and still image photography equipment. My favorite is anything shot on celluloid.
Did you finish school?
You don’t have to go to college, but I did kids. Pre-college courses in film photography and I have a Bachelor’s Degree in film, in Cinematography, that I’m still paying off. I’ve never had a skateboarder, nor someone on set, ask to see my credentials.
How did you start working with Autumn Skateshop?
During college, I would spend time between classes at Tompkins Square Park or hanging out at Autumn Skateshop. After enough time and just trying to be useful, Autumn Dave hired me after Jeremy Wieland, known as Grandpa, put in a good word for me. Grandpa also got me a job at Sweet Paradise when I was underage and the only two bars worth going to in the Lower East Side was the one I worked at and Max Fish. Those three places brought me into contact with everyone who has helped me along the way.
Being able to call Tompkins home at the time, you were around to watch a lot of young dudes come up make a name. How does it feel being able to watch them grow into the skaters that they’ve become?
Tompkins Square PArk has definitely been a home away from home for me. It’s the meeting place or hang out spot for skateboarders, artists, and weirdos. Like any place it’s had its ups and downs. Professional skaters and semi-famous people of the arts eventually moved on and a younger generation moved in. I was there to take notice of Sean Pablo, Sage Elsesser, Ben Kadow, and Tyshawn Jones. It’s amazing being able to watch them grow from children to adults and witness their accomplishments over the years. They are the new generation doing it and I’m very much looking forward to seeing what they have done for “BLESSED”.
First skate trip?
My first skate trip was taking the train to Ashbury Park, NJ, just a few towns north of where I grew up. My first real trip was a full east coast trip from NYC to Miami and back. My girlfriend Alanna, who was working with Mark Gonzalez, helped me pull on Brad Cromer, Jake Donnelly, and Dylan Perry. I got Dan Pensyl, Curtis Rapp, James Concannon, Emilio Cuilan, and my brother Brengar to join us. It was definitely a “trip.”
Any bands that have influenced you the most?
Bands taht I love or have influenced me are those with something to say and pushing the boundaries of contemporary music in some way. I grew up on metal with my biker parents, but have always been heavily influenced by Morrissey/The Smiths, Nick Cave, Patti Smith, Bauhaus, and Heatmiser/Elliott Smith. They have always been the soundtrack to my life. I’ve been listening to a lot of Jawbreaker, Christian Death, and The JEsus and Mary Chain again recently. I’d say the best and most influential bands out of NYC are TV Baby and Gang Gang Dance, who are extremely underrated in my opinion. Besides skateboarding and narrative filmmaking, a big passion of mine is shooting musicians and live music.
When/where was the first time you and Dylan crossed paths?
Dylan and I met sometime prior to the release of Mindfield in a haze of smoke and whisky on the Bowery. We were introduced by a mutual friend, James Concannon. I don’t believe we spoke much the first time we met. However, we seemed to click and spent a lot of time together. We partied hard and worked harder when it was time. He was my brother and I feel that he influences me every single day, especially when I feel held back by insecurities, I can hear him urging me to step out of boundaries I sabotage myself with.
What has it been like to document such an influential person such as Dylan?
Our relationship was more than just working in skateboarding or a drinking buddy. I truly feel we both believed in each other, and looking back now I wish I captured more of our day to day interactions. None of my images are posed. They are all Dylan in his natural form and I believe that’s why they feel so powerful to me. Beyond that, he has transcended skateboarding. He left us in or before his prime, wanting more – much like a Kurt Cobain who will influence people long after his passing, for lack of a better comparison. It’s insane the amount of messages and people who come up and thank me or want to talk about him and our working together. I’m beyond grateful seeing his positive influence on the world.
Favorite memory of Dylan?
Favorite memories of Dylan are those I can’t recall. Why did we wake up in the back of Autumn Skateshop sleeping on the soft goods? Probably because we had an amazing evening and I dearly miss our adventures together. Besides that, I’d say a real and proper memory of Dylan is when we skated from downtown to the car wash bump-to-bar while Bill was shooting Cherry. It was 98 degrees that day and wasn’t our first time going to shoot that trick. He worked his ass off for the backside flip compared to the frontside flip he did within three tries. I filmed him do it twice that day and shot a photo on film that has a light leak running down the edge of the frame, it’s one of my favorite skateboard images I’ve shot. Perfectly imperfect.
Any comments on the world today?
The world today is fucked and it’s overwhelming. It’s always been that way to some degree. However, the climate has changed with technology and everybody has a voice that can be heard. This is both a great and terrible thing and I hope people use it for the better of mankind rather than doggy snapchat filters and brunch photographs – I’m looking forward to the day when the voices and the lives of women, LGBTQ community, and people of color are heard and treated equally. I beg that you please go out and vote.
Life?
Life tends to come and go…It can suck and usually does. I suggest we all keep pushing and fighting to find our palce on this planet. Find what you love, even the little enjoyments or moments of silence that bring happiness to stay sane. Be prepared for failure and be okay with that. On other aspects of life, I’d like to mention something without pushing my agenda down your throat. The meat and dairy industry, specifically factory farming, is the most cruel and unnatural thing on the planet. Please try to be aware of what it is you are consuming and how it affects everything. I do not beleive that one life is more valuable than another.

================================================================================

What’s the best hidden secret about Milwaukee?
Legend has it the switch fs 180 was invented here.
Milwaukee has a rich legacy of fun and wacky skating. From the BEEZ videos to the most absurd spot names. Can you elaborate on that? i.e. WACBA.
Meeting up with has always been roughly 40% skating 60% laughing. Top three favorite spot names are Tweakers Chill Lounge, Masturbating Scarecrow Bank, and Poop Island.
What’s one thing you’d like to see more of in skating? How about less?
More inclusiveness. Less face filming.
Any video parts that get you fired up to skate?
I’ve been pretty hyped on
Seize the Seconds
, that Alexis part rips!
What cautionary tale would you tell 16 year old Vince? Examples; buy BitCoin, don’t skate your dunks, skate faster.
Let your damn injuries heal! A stiff breeze will roll my ankles now.
Is there any high profile skater people would be surprised to know you like?
Maybe Tpuds? Mile long back tails are pretty sick.
Can you make the SK8MAFIA Gang sign first try?
Just threw one up, might’ve been backwards.
Lightning Round:
Busch Baked Beans or Bagel Bites?
I’m thinking about those beans.
JUB or JAWS?
JUB.
Wet Willy or Flame Boy?
Wet William.
Skate in sweats or sweat like Gershon?
Sweats.
Wax it or go faster?
Milwaukee just found out about wax last year, still stuck in the “go faster” stage.
What’s more busted, old dudes who skate and talk about the glory days or old dudes who don’t skate and wear Indy and Santa Cruz stuff?
Old posers.
Jeffwon Song or Daewon Song?
Daewon’s the goat.
Nope or Dope: Willy Grinds?
Dope.
Early Grabs?
Dope.
Pole Jams?
Dope.
Trap Music?
Dope.
Gilmore Girls?
Dope.
Proud Boyz?
NOPE.
Pressure Flips?
Dope.
Share the secret spot?
Nope.
Fanny Pack?
Nope.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller
What’s the most productive thing you’ve done this week?
I worked on a couple pieces of furniture. I’ve been into that shit lately. Once we moved into our new spot I was going to the grocery store the first night and found this old desk on the side of the road and thought ‘I’m gonna take it, I’m gonna make it nice.’ I took it home and finished it all up, and I’ve just been doing that everyday. If I’m out I’ll find some random shit and fuck with it. My room’s been coming together with some trash from New York City.
Would you consider New Jersey the greatest state in the nation?
That’s not even a fucking question! New Jersey is the greatest state in the whole world. Ann Van, Skate Jawn, all that shit is New Jersey oriented. Probably the best skateboarders ever too. Fred Gall, Jordan Gesko, Nik Stain. Good people.
Where in NJ are you from?
I grew up in this town called Lambertville, which is on the Delaware River bordering New Hope. It was so sick, a super good town to grow up in. Mad diversity. My parents were into art and that was the town for it. Then my parents split up and one of them moved to this town Flemington and one stayed in Lambertville. I went to this shitty little high school with hicks and maybe 40 kids in my class total. Flemington was wack, pretty boring town, strip malls and shit. That’s where Shields Skatepark was though. Huge shout out to Shields.
What was it like skating there growing up?
My boy Noah Barnett got me into skating, and he used to go to the old Shields. I didn’t really skate at the time but then my mom bought me a new board one day. She got me a cheetah-print Speed Demons board, neon pink, so fresh. Set that up and went to the new Shields and never stopped. That was the start of it.
Is it true Eric Swick, who is now your roommate, used to be your skate counselor at Shields?
No, he was not my skate counselor, but that dude is my fucking father. He’s been there the whole way man. He would drive me to Ann Van and Princeton when I was a little ass kid. He’s the man, he’s my brother.
How old were you when you first got hooked up by Prime Skateshop?
I started skating in 2010, so maybe around 2012. I was going to the shop a bunch and they would hook it up with a discount. If I filmed he would send my footage to random reps too. I’ve got to give it all to Rich at Prime, he was the man and he helped me so much. That shop was the best.
When did you move to NY?
Last October, so a little over a year now. I’m digging it out here, it’s the best.
Who’s your crew here?
It’s a pretty sick crew. I met them all the first week I came out here and we’ve been skating ever since. Dudes like Brandon Stepano, who’s filming the video (Sportsmanshit), my boy Noah, a bunch of homies that Brandon’s friends with. Random people everywhere. I’m really thankful for everyone in the squad it’s not just one group either, I like to hang out with everyone.
How often do you go out and film or shoot photos?
When I first moved here we were filming a bunch for this video. We were all super hyped going out after work every night when I only had nights to film. We were banging it out every night but lately I’ve been slacking. It goes through patches where it’s super productive and shit, and then a month will go by and haven’t filmed anything.
Let’s call that the Blue Park Effect.
It is the Blue Park Effect! That happened to me man.
It takes out many people.
I need it to stop, but that place is the best. It’s probably the best park out here. It’s the closest thing to Ann Van. Just a bunch of random shit.
How was your recent trip to Montreal?
That was the lifestyle mission. One homie had a camera but we weren’t stressing on filming. We went last year for the Dime Comp and every spot was blown out. So we went for four days before it happened just to skate. Last time there was so much partying going on that we really didn’t get to skate as much as we wanted with so many people at each spot. The homie Sam got a rental car and stopped on the way at a couple of places. We stopped at Lake George. Fuck Lake George.
What’s wrong with Lake George?
It’s Trumpland, that shit was scary. But then we went out into the forest and hiked a bunch.
Are you working on anything right now?
We’re just working on the video “Sportsmanshit” which is basically done. I think he’s cutting the date after Halloween. I have one day so we’re going out Sunday to try to get one more thing.
And you’re going to have a full part? Noah and Swick too?
Yeah, it’s going to be insane. Even though our group is always together, Brandon always keeps everything super low so that when the premiere comes you’re super surprised. He won’t tell anyone what any of our friends do or anything. He’s super low key about stuff which I really appreciate. I had met him a few times before, so after dinner I hit him up to see if he wanted to skate. We went out at 10 at night until 1 in the morning and it was so sick.
What’s the best advice you’ve ever been given?
I can’t quote it correctly because I don’t remember exactly how he said it, but John Gardner said one of the best things I’ve ever heard. I’ve known John from Ann Van and he had just started hooking me up with DC a little bit. We were at this spot one day in Philly and he said ‘The bee will find the flower when it’s ready to pollinate’ or some shit like that, but it made so much sense. He basically told me to be patient and shit will come to you, you shouldn’t worry about stuff. It stuck. Hearing it from a dude like that means a lot. John’s the best dude ever.
Which video part do you get the most inspired by?
I love John Igei in Static II. Shit’s bomb dude.
Any plans for 2020?
I don’t know man, just to keep doing what I’m doing. It’s been working out. New York is a crazy place, shit just happens man.
Shoutouts?
Definitely shout out to my mom Betty. Flower Porn is her company, she’s doing her thing and I’m stoked for her. My dad for being the coolest fucking dude and influencing me in many different ways with art and music. Eric Swick is a legend. Noah Barnett and all my friends from high school. Ben Hyatt and all those fools. My sister, she’s one of my roommates, and it’s the best. And you guys, appreciate you guys.

================================================================================

Interview by Jonathan Becker
What are you up to today?
Nothing much, just ran some errands and normal day to day stuff. Now I’m waiting to link up with the homie Matt to try to get this line later on.
Where do you guys plan on skating?
I don’t know, but I’m obviously going to start off at Black Box per usual I’ll probably try to go to this other spot too far. It’s these two ledges back to back, I’ll try to get a line there with a fakie flip tailslide.
What’s it like to have BlackBox be your backyard?
It’s pretty sick. Not gonna lie but before I moved over to downtown I definitely took it for granted. now I appreciate it a lot more because I get to go there everyday, warm up, and generate new ideas as I’m there. Every time I’m there I try to think of different ways I can skate it. It is one of Atlanta’s historically know spots so it would be cool to make my mark. It’s super hard to skate so it’s a pretty humbling spot. The ledges are tall, short, and chunky. I’ve never had an easy day skating there, never.
Craziest thing you’ve seen there?
Travis Glover. We were there one day skating and tis is when he just got a dog and it was a little puppy still, he literally had the dog on a leash and did a back smith gap to the sidewalk still holding the leash the whole time. I wish that clip would come out already. That was probably the sickest thing I have seen because it was so casual and your dog is just running next to you and you do something like that first try. Just why he is an Atlanta legend honestly.
When did you start riding for Stratosphere?
I started riding for Stratosphere probably around four and a half years ago. My homie Jay, he is kinda the reason I started to hang around at Strat more often and then I moved to the city and started hanging around there while I was injured. Those guys are sick, they treat you like family. Rest in peace Tom, he definitely looked out. Every time I would come in he would always make sure I had everything I needed and stuff. One day he just got up and asked me if I had everything I needed and I was like ” Oh I’m good today.” He went back behind the counter to grab those bones swiss ceramics, the expensive ones. He grabbed those, shoved it in my pocket, and was like “You’re good now!” Thats when I was like alright this is the place for sure.
How did World Formation come together?
Shit man, honestly Jourdy already had the name. we would all see each other at Brook. I convinced Jourdy to get a camera because we all needed footage and there was no one sick to film with at the time. Then Jourdy just progressed really fast at it and we dropped videos pretty quick. It was like me, Jourdy, Elijah, Devin, and we got Zay and Jay. It was all the people that would see each other at the skatepark and we gradually all started hanging out more. When we dropped our first legit video we realized we had something going on here, so we all got hyped and kept going. Ron came into the picture and now it is what it is today. We actually have a platform and how it all came together was all of us hanging out and deciding we could do it.
I heard something about a BNB on a World Formation trip to New York, what happened with that?
I mean that was just fucked, basically we almost got scammed. We all went to NYC together to try to film some stuff and the airbnb guy, I guess he over booked or was just trying to scam us because as soon as we all show up to New York the guy wasn’t answering the phone. Then he is saying that he overbooked and we were pretty much just beat. Then we were all just sitting there like “What the fuck” because we just flew into New York and there are like eight or nine of us. Then we finally got up in this Jewish hotel, we walked in and they were looking at us all crazy because we were like “Yeah can we just get one room?”  And there were like nine of us. So we pretty much had to beg this woman to let us get this one night so we could figure out the rest of the week. Eventually, she ended up fucking with us and letting us stay. Shit was hectic just carrying around our suitcases all night. We didn’t get the hotel till almost midnight and it was almost a last resort at that point. We still skated the rest of the time and everyone got footage so I guess it is something to laugh at now.
You’ve been thrifting a bunch, how long have you flipping stuff from the thrift for?
That’s pretty recent to be honest. You know, life is hard and everyone needs money so I was just thinking of another way I could be able to skate without having to work a job I hate. I still have a job but I do this on the side pretty much whenever I have free time. I got into it really quick because Atlanta has all this Olympic stuff from 1996 that I am really into and there’s is just so much of it.
What’s your favorite restaurant in Atlanta and what are you ordering?
Recently my girl and I have been going to this place called “Gaja”. It’s a Korean restaurant, underground and in East Atlanta village. Every time i order the bulgogi, that shit is so good. A breakfast vibe is anywhere that has a good bacon, egg and cheese croissant which is easy to come by in New York but out here we usually go to this coffee shop called ” Aurora” that is right next to Stratosphere.
What makes you skate the way you skate now?
I like ledge skating so I guess the root of my skating is just straight street and ledges, just pushing through the city. I have never been a fan of throwing myself down stuff because it just hurts. I don’t want to just call it raw street skating but if you are just in the city every day and just skating city spot and everything is not perfect with crusty ground and stuff, that is what I am into. Black Box is the root of my skating.
In which phase of your skating do you wish you could have pushed yourself more?
Now. I definitely push myself but you get older and you become more cautious. You also know what you can and can’t do so it always gets frustrating when you kind of know that you aren’t pushing yourself all the time. When you are young you are just trying whatever without even thinking about it, so it’s kind of easy to push yourself at a younger age.
How is skating in the South different than the rest of the U.S.?
Skating down here is different as far as our spots are crusty and everything is kinda spread out outside the city limits. You can go skate where there are no buildings in sight and there will be perfect spots with trees surrounding it and you won’t see any city life at all which is cool because you have two different perspectives. Southern Georgia skateboarding I think is different because there is no industry. In New York or LA, you skate around pros or whatever and here you kind of just see homies and everyone just does their own thing. We all meet up and skate and sometimes people have their own different missions and stuff. Skating in the south is more relaxed I think. It seems like here it is relaxed and New York is fast paced and LA is like everything is happening out there. Here you just go at your own pace and there is no pressure.
As an old man, what do you see yourself doing?
Fuck, hopefully skating. That would be cool. Hopefully having a nice place and maybe owning a company or maybe still something in skating. Maybe just on some retirement shit skating and doing side hobbies but it is hard to predict where I will be when I am older. Hopefully not much will change besides me being old. It would be cool to still just be active and not act like I am too old for anything.
What’s next?
Finishing up this part I’m working on. Traveling more with skateboarding and vacations to see different things. Being able to see friends in other places and figuring out where I want to be in life is what will be next for me.
Any last words?
Shout out World Formation, my mom, my girlfriend Rachel, Atlanta, everyone that hooks me up, and all my sponsors that take care of me. Shout out Tom, rest in peace forever. And fuck it shout out you!
Check Justin’s part for
World Formation
below:

================================================================================

Who were the original people you were skating and shooting photos of out in Arizona?
My friends that I first started with were Andrew McCarthy, who does Golden Hour with me now, and Mike Surget, who was like my best friend growing up. He passed away a few years ago, but he was a really amazing skater when we were kids. Once I got better at shooting I got in with Lee Bender, Michael Tubbs, also the Cowtown kids like Ricky Geiger and Brian Lantz. My photos would get a little better and then I had the confidence to reach out to some more sponsored skaters that I didn’t know like Marty Murawski, Ryan Lay, and Levi Brown.
How long after you started submitting photos did you become staff at The Skateboard Mag?
I was probably 18 and I sent a bunch of slides to Grant Brittain with no information at all, basically hoping for a bad critique but then they ended up wanting to run one. Shortly after that, Dave Swift came to Arizona and I met him and we got on pretty well. I visited two or three more times over the next year, and kept sending photos. Right when I turned 19 they said they wanted to pay my retainer, $750 a month, and that I should get a passport. I can’t even tell you how much it was the exact thing I wanted. It was literally the dream come true.
And you were there until the end? What was the deal with the Berrics buying The Skateboard Mag?
Man, I know the mag was kind of shrinking and we were having less ads. Thrasher was really killing it at video and online and we still had a lot of resources put into photographers. It’s heartbreaking to say, but it would have made more sense to have more people making video content and doing web stuff. Berra decided he wanted to add a print element. It just wasn’t for me, I’d been there eight years and that was kind of the last straw for me. Not that I have anything against the Berrics. I know it’s really easy within skating to talk shit on Berra. I just don’t understand what he’s trying to do or wanted to do with it. The way I got my job at the mag was like, we worked in a studio above a mechanic on the beach. It was six people and it was mellow, we had beer every day at 4:00pm. Going to the Berrics office, it just felt a little more stuffy, a bit more cold to me.
I feel like The Skateboard Mag had a way of presenting skateboard media that was important for that era, and then the Berrics just ruined it.
I’ve always been bummed that people never got to mourn a little bit for it. Where everyone talks about what it meant to them and how important it was, and the mag never got that because it didn’t really technically end, the name changed and then just slid away. The staff was so unique and the mix was so perfect. Obviously Grant and Swift, they were the forefathers of it and then Atiba and Ako brought kind of this fresh piece to it, and then you had Kevin Wilkins who brought this really amazing abstract writer’s brain, kind of subversive piece to it, and then working with writers like Carnie and Neiratko, Ty Evans writing weird columns or Lee DuPont. It was so cool and it was a really special thing to me.
So you made the transition to CCS. What do you do there?
When they hired me at CCS, Footlocker was putting them out of business and they had fired everybody and liquidated all the inventory. So this skateshop from Portland called Daddies bought the name, social channels, and mailing list, basically an intellectual property deal. They already did pretty decent online sales, so I helped them bring a lot of brands back in and start this thing back up. About five years ago they offered me a full-time job as the Brand Manager. I wasn’t sure if I wanted to, but I realized that the opportunity was just too cool. How often do you get the opportunity to work for an iconic brand that you have history with and do pretty much whatever you want? I’m proud that we kept CCS around and we still serve a lot of skaters a lot of places.
You’re referring to it as a brand, but it’s still a mail order system right? Does CCS do anything to show support to skateshop owners or that infrastructure?
I’ve always wanted to do more, but it seems like there’s just kind of a little bit of a disdain sometimes, and I want to come from a good place of supporting skating as a whole, so we mostly do our own thing. The other thing I’ll say about the argument of big e-comm stores hurting the small stores is CCS has been around since 1985. So more than likely if you had good years or bad years, you had good years or bad years with CCS existing. A lot of skate shop owners probably hate me for saying that and I’m sorry to those guys. At the end of the day, if we’re not careful we could move into a place where every brand is its own store and that’s it, everything is fully vertical. But once you start doing that, you lose the important partnerships that still bring a lot to skating as a whole. It’s hard, I think skaters, we love to stay in our old school headspace sometimes.
Tell me about Golden Hour.
Golden Hour at this point is just a creative outlet. I just wanted to put together a little mag and see what happened. About ten minutes into trying to lay it out I called my old friend Andrew, and asked if he wanted to put it together since he does design stuff. I think he just smoked a bunch of weed one night and he laid out the whole magazine in three or four hours. Now the ideas are stacking faster than the issues come up, but we are able to keep it small and make it so it doesn’t get too overwhelming because we do both work full-time aside from Golden Hour. If it became too much of a pain in the ass, we just wouldn’t do it.
You’ve been in the industry a while. What do you think is the future of printed skate media?
I think the way Greg Hunt did his book with Dill is really cool and unique. And he’s done reprints that are different editions and he tapped into the market in Japan that was really interested in it and did a special book for them. And that to me is the future. Certainly not in a monthly format  working at this point. I don’t think people want to consume print media like they want to consume Twitter feeds.
Would you say there’s less gatekeepers now making the rule?
If people are printing more skating that just helps all of us because then the community grows and people are reminded that they love getting skate magazines. To all the photographers out there to know, just do a run of 50. Just try it out, you know?
And it’s so important for consumers to support those projects, and support those photographers.
Yeah, it’s worth it to just keep this thing alive that you love. If you put out a project and it’s getting supported, then you’re going to have this really good feeling about going out and supporting other projects. Hopefully we can just perpetuate more of that.
This has been a crazy last year, what’s a prediction for 2021?
Oh my God. There’s almost no way to make a prediction in this era of our lives without just sounding stupid because you can’t predict anything. I mean, my hope for 2021 is that skating continues to grow. And through that, a bunch of new people and new ideas and new crews and new projects come into skating, on the print side of things and the photo side of things. I don’t think we’re going to get quite back to normal yet. I think everything’s going to stay a little weird for a while, but I kind of hope that skating has another year of productivity. I hope that people see what they did last year and are able to continue putting cool stuff out.

================================================================================

Roger, what’s going on, what are we doing right now?
We’re at the Phoenix Hotel, having a pool party. We partying in the Tenderloin.
What have you been doing all day?
Woke up in the sunset at a friend’s house, went and skated around a little bit and got some coffee, a coconut, and some grapefruit juice, and then I went… Where the fuck did I go? I just forgot.
It’s okay. Is that like an average day? You forgetting where you are?
Well an average day would be I wake up, skate down 24th up to Guerrero and then walk up to 21st. Bomb the double shoot down to the 19th, make my way over to the BART on 16th, and then make my way downtown and go skate throughout the city. All day. Every day.
So what do you do for work?
I park cars, I’m a valet.
Have you ever parked cars on acid?
Next question.
Where you from originally? Is SF better?
I’m originally from Cleveland, OH. I wouldn’t say it’s better, there’s just different aspects. I love San Francisco though and that’s why I live here.
What did you love most about Cleveland?
My family being there. Skateboarding and shit was cool too, but family for sure.
Who were some of the OGs that showed you the way out there?
Tim Rigby owned a shop called Ohio Surf and Skate, unfortunately it went under cause he was too nice of a dude. But through that shop I met Grady Wilrich, Jeff Weisenberg, Dan Byler, Jake and Isaac Edwards, Brian Burkholder. They were the older heads who brought me to skateparks and stuff. Then when I started skating street it was Nathan
Malinsky, he had the skate wagon with everything you’d need. Bondo, signs, generator from a lawnmower engine.
Sick, what’s yr favorite trick?
Tail scrapes over manholes in the street.
So when’s the last time you took a lady out on a date?
Tonight! I saw a girl I know from another girl that I was seeing. Saw her walking down the stairs at BART and I peeked through that lil tunnel and saw her and I was like “Alright, she looks familiar.” Then we linked up and now we’re here. Told her we we’re going to a hotel party, and here we are.
What’s yr favorite flavor of buzzballs and how’d they become trendy?
Probably strawberry rum job, but that’s just the buzzballs talking. I don’t know how they showed up, I saw em on Spirit Airlines which you should never fly because it sucks, and then we just started saying the word cause it’s so fucking catchy. Then everybody caught on, and started saying it and actually drinking them. But I rarely drink buzzballs, I WILL drink one for sure, like yo @buzzballs send me a box!
You reading this buzzballs? Send us a box.
They were supposed to already! But it never came… Oh my toe!
Shit sorry, yr really wearing flip flops right now?
Yeah I just found em poolside, I don’t know who’s they are.
Sketchy. What’s the meaning of life?
Enjoy it!
So what does “linking and building” mean?
It can mean anything you want it to mean. You can link and build a girl, you can link and build a buzz ball, you can link and build a spliff. Anything, you’re just networking, you’re linking, you’re building, you’re doing your thing.
Well said, so I just declined Dr. Browns phone call, what do you
think about him?
I think I left him at work at 8 o’clock cause I cut myself early to come to the pool party! But I love Dr. Brown. He fucks with the vision heavy.
What is the vision, and can anybody fuck with it?
The vision is the vision and it’s linking and
building and that’s all you have to do.
So how’d you get on Snack?
When I lived on Van Ness and Eddy in 2011, I was skating down Van Ness and I ran into Bonesaw. I had met him prior, but basically I was like, “Where’s the party at?” and he was like, “Oh it’s that way.” And he sent me to Folsom Street Fair.
Yikes. Describe the team in one word?
There’s a lot of affiliates, but I guess I’d say goofballs.
Tell me something incriminating about Bonesaw
?
Ahhh, incriminations of the hacksaw. He’s hacking and linking right now! That’s a tough question, Bonesaw never incriminates himself.
Have you ever thought you were going to die?
All the time, every day! Whether it’s bombing a hill or walking down the street in the TL. You never know what’s gonna happen.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
I’m already a burnout so fuck, more burnt.
What’s yr favorite hill in the city?
There’s two of em. Guerrero from 21st to 19th, and then Diamond Heights. From the top, the crustiness to the smoothness. It’s a good balance.
Whats yr favorite alley in the city?
I’m not gonna say Albion, if that’s what you want me to say. I don’t even have a favorite, I skate down all of em just to see what’s going on.
What was the craziest shit that happened in Colombia to you?
The whole trip was crazy. I had a great time man, it was wild and we skated a ton. We met a lot of really cool people too. America puts all other countries on blast for the dumbest shit and they don’t even know. Travel, travel, travel. It’s the best thing.
You think yr gonna stay out West?
I don’t know, I love it here but with the way things are looking who knows? I might end up in Japan, or some shit. I’d like to live there.
(Drunk Russian girl: Who is your friend? You are neglecting him!)
Nickodem: I’m just waiting for the bus and they’re doing an interview! I don’t want to interrupt.
You’re not interrupting trust me! Why’d you have to do this damn interview at the party asshole!?
This is the whole point! Nick you got any questions?
(Drunk Russian: I have question! are you grateful for your skate skills?)
Very grateful, I’m extremely grateful for my body and my legs and my arms and my torso and my penis. I’ve been skateboarding for eighteen years! And it took me a while to realize how skateboarding makes me feel, and to truly appreciate it. I don’t know about the skills, but I understand now how much I appreciate the way being on a skateboard makes me feel happy. That’s what I’m grateful for.
(Drunk Russian: I feel the same thing for Salsa dance.)
Alright that’s enough. How much acid is too much acid?
There’s never too much acid.
What do you think of electric skateboards?
I don’t know, I like to just point and laugh at those people. I mean it looks like they’re having a good time and all, but I don’t fuck with em personally. I was talking with Adrian the other day and he was saying there should be a little attachable thing for your board, like a little motor so then you could just cruise up the hill real quick. I mean thats a cool idea but nah, I’m not fucking with the electric longboards. They are not fucking with the vision.
Anybody you want to shout out hooking you up?
Venture, Brama’s hooking it up. Bronson and Mob just sent me a nice little box. Vans, yes, thank you Matt Casper, you do so much! Mission, FTC, DLX, all the shops, thank you for keeping this city going.
Alright last question. Any advice to kids who have never truly fucked with the vision?
Save the best for last. If you don’t fuck with the vision, fuck with the vision. Keep riding your skateboard, keep being happy. Peace.

================================================================================

Interview and introduction by
Zach Moeller
.
Photos by
Matthew Maydoney
.
Leif Hauge
has always emphasized putting skateboarding first. Having recently graduated from Wentworth School of Design in Boston, Leif upheld that dedication with his
senior thesis
, which he concluded by building a skatable sculpture entitled “Tempos.” One of his goals with the project is to provide a unique obstacle for skaters of all skill levels to enjoy. More importantly, however, he hopes this project will inspire a conversation within his city to expand skateboarding into public areas in an effort to combat modern (often wrong) perceptions of skateboarders in the streets. Recognizing that skaters are students of texture, and more importantly individuals who wish to express their creativity in shared public spaces, Leif laid out his motives for starting the project as well as his aspirations for the future of it.
Where are we and what did we just finish doing?
We are at Chinatown Courts in Boston, Massachusetts. We just got done skating a sculpture titled “Tempos,” designed by myself. We arranged it in its original position and had a good session.
Talk to me about the design of Tempos.
The design of this sculpture, this obstacle, I wanted to be familiar to skateboarders. It’s similar to a pyramid, kind of skewed in its shape where there’s no parallel or flat faces. Right off the bat I wanted it to feel like you could skate it and immediately recognize as a skateboarder, “oh this is interesting.”
The second part of it is the texture which you can see. To speak on the texture, I wanted it to be different in the sense of it’s not just your form but also how you ride it and how it feels when you do. It’s also inclusive in terms of ability. What I mean by that is that you don’t have to do a big trick on it, you can literally just roll over this thing and feel the texture. A top down view of this sculpture will show you the shapes and create the patterns that you can see along the surfaces.
The last thing is the modularity of it. It’s split into three bodies which allows for the possibility of rearranging it differently and further extending this idea of giving creative expression to skateboarders.
What inspired a concept like this?
A lot of the thinking behind this piece is derived from considering the current solutions to skateboarding in cities, which is essentially just building skateparks. How can you further push and integrate what we’re really rooted in, which is the streets? What is a solution to incorporating skateboarding back into the streets? Being this kind of nomad for the past six years and actually coming from cities like San Francisco, where I’ve experienced how somewhere like EMB feels compared to the Island, versus how bombing down asphalt feels, it made me realize we’re super-hyper aware of texture. That’s the inspiration behind the texture. I love going to an indoor park and there’s little x’s on the coping and you can feel it, it’s called diamond grind. I love how in Virginia, or even here in Boston, there’s this colonial brick that’s perfectly flush so it doesn’t slow you down but you get to feel every single crack and groove. It even sounds awesome on film. While filming skateboarding, you’re visually drawn to spots with these repeated patterns. That’s where my inspiration comes from, like how can I mimic that while also making it unique? Also, there is the inclusive aspect in terms of ability. If you go to a skatepark to learn how to skate you are going to feel smooth concrete, essentially nothing with this absence of texture. But here’s this opportunity to experience what the streets can feel like and offer. That’s the real inspiration. How can I make that connection to a beginner and how can I bring what I find satisfying as a street skateboarder into a sculpture piece.
What can you tell me about your senior thesis?
I went to school at Wentworth School of Technology. It’s primarily an engineering school but they have an industrial design program. It’s essentially product design in the most traditional sense. The thinking of it allows you to build it into architecture and systems designs. It’s a problem solving mindset just expanded a little more. I took my senior thesis as an opportunity to be like, “What can I actually do with skateboarding aside from things like designing footwear or hardgoods?” What sort of problems do I face as a skateboarder and what seems most important to me. The future of skateboarding should be in the streets, continuing what we’re rooted in. Having good memories out and about and exploring things that aren’t exactly meant to be explored that way. That’s where the industrial design thinking helped the most. I found a demographic, skateboarders, and I found a problem that we all deal with, a negative perception of who we are. I am an educated person yet I’m still perceived as a criminal, which is annoying, but it’s all due to my pursuit of creative expression through skating. My design background has made me consider that there is a proper solution to combating that perception.
So you’re trying to bridge the gap between that generalized public perception of us and who we as skateboarders truly are?
Yes, for sure. I think that this project is a stepping stone to inspire others to create similar projects and solutions, and to inspire conversations with cities to happen. To be like, “Hey, how can we better incorporate skating into this city besides just building a skatepark?”
How did you present this to your professors and school faculty, people who don’t understand skateboarding, in a way that accurately communicated your goal? Do you think they understood what you were trying to explain and do you think others with no knowledge of skateboarding will also understand?
My initial pitches were framed in a way where I just introduced photos of me being arrested, screenshots of me being strangled by a security guard. I showed them the problem of physical conflict and altercations rooted in that negative perception of skaters and demonstrated how I had full experience with it. I didn’t talk about how other people experience this, I planted the seed by showing them me going through it. That’s a huge thing that many designers don’t have at their disposal. Most design students research the fuck out of the people they’re trying to solve this problem for, but have no connection or personal experience with it. So that’s how I showed them how it’s valuable and connected to them. They immediately grabbed on to that and said that they understood. They jumped into my shoes and considered that this may be a good solution, that he can speak for many more people than just himself because there is a huge community of skateboarders. My goal with my pitches was to bridge the gap for non-skateboarders to understand that street skateboarding is our culture, not skateparks or cruising on a longboard.
Skatable sculptures and obstacles have been implemented in public spaces in cities like
Bordeaux
or
Malmö
. Do you hope to eventually be able to follow suit here in Boston with more permanent installations, and how do you hope to get the city on board?
Yes, I hope to follow the infrastructure they have built in cities like those as far as their architecture is concerned. They seem much more progressive and willing to try it out. It’s not a guarantee that skateboarding will win in the end, but it is a guarantee that people will see other folks’ ways of living in public spaces. From the projects like this and the people who I’ve talked to that have been involved in them, it seems to go very well. Designing spaces like this in public areas has reduced conflict and has increased openness to skateboarding. As far as how to get that conversation started with the city here, I hope projects like this can help introduce this concept of inclusiveness. Maybe it starts with only building wooden obstacles and placing them in areas already friendly towards skateboarding. That’s what I did with Tempos. It’s been interesting to see it in a space that’s also used by basketball players and volleyball players, where it’s being used as seating or kids are running around and playing on it. It’s honestly the most ideal test. The fact that it’s worked means that if I get the opportunity to speak with the city about furthering this, I can say “this has been here for a while and the public is reacting to it just fine. Good things come from it and it’s actually more positive than anything. So why not expand on it in other areas?”
What is the next step in advancing this vision into further projects?
Well, keeping a good record of what’s been done and starting conversations with people who have a similar open mindset. I don’t think this can be accomplished by just me, not anything big can. It has to be in collaboration with people. So if that’s possible that’s what I’m going to try to pursue. It’s one step at a time. I’m only one guy that’s begging his friends for help whenever they can, whether it’s moving the obstacles around, capturing my creation process, or even just skating it with me. I do it because I believe it benefits the skateboarding community here in Boston.
Do you think getting brands involved could help?
Brand involvement is a great question because it depends what the brand has in mind. As a designer and artist I’m pretty open to what that can look like. What can be agreed upon is that if a brand is interested, there has to be a conversation with the city. No corporation is big enough that a city will simply bow down to it. People still need to be convinced that it’s a good project. I think brand involvement could be the easiest and most doable solution to where we can get funded to build something unique while creating video assets and photo assets. Brands could also use this as an asset for creative direction, maybe using the piece as a stage for shooting a marketing campaign, for example, and have even bigger product stories. That’s ideal, and super possible. Brand involvement would be where this could actually take wind. Nobody will really care about this post-grad college kid who keeps making small wooden obstacles. I think something bigger to speed this up would have to happen.
What parallels can be drawn between design and skateboarding?
Design and skating are very similar. The mindset of a skateboarder is your willingness to fail until you succeed. That is something I learned very early on as a skater and I took that to design school and watched my peers struggle to learn that skill set. It’s a huge stepping stone in making progress in design. It’s a willingness to fail mindset and that’s where the connection and the path to success is. It’s also about seeing something that’s not intended to be used for something and seeing other uses for it. I think a lot of skateboarders are inherently designers. You’re constantly searching for skate spots and wondering, “how can I make this work?” There’s your problem, and an attempted solution. You can try for hours, go back and fail, and then reflect on it. That’s the last thing. Design is all about feedback and so is skateboarding. It’s all about reflecting on how you did, what could be done differently, and what makes it stand apart.
Would you like to thank anyone who has helped you out with this project?
All of my professors. Derek Casio, he’s a huge help who has motivated me and done a lot. Armin at
Orchard
and Jason at
Cardinal
, all the people who have supported the vision and helped me. Also every single person who has donated money to me for help. I am so against Gofundmes but I raised all of the money I needed within 24 hours. Skateboarding is awesome in that sense.

================================================================================

Okay Eden, what was the best thing to happen to you in the past 24 hours?
I saw some of my old Eugene homies, rad dudes I grew up skating with. And watching that pushing plywood edit with Smolik in it. That shit was tight.
So yr from Eugene, OR?
I’m from Corvalis. But I would go and skate in Eugene a lot.
How long do you think you can manual?
Shit as long as the hill will go for. That one you filmed was probably the longest.
Where you were missing yr front wheel?
Yeah that was like, 5-6 blocks. I could’ve kept going if the hill did. I’d like to find out…
What do you do for work?
Uh, shit. I gotta figure that out right now. I’m in between professions. I do a bunch of random shit, I did a skate camp up in Portland all summer. And then I was doing the beet harvest, and then bike messaging in the city. Now I got some money saved up and I just gotta see what the next move is. Might be teaching kids how to swim.
Teach kids how to swim?
Maybe.
Were you a big swimmer as a kid?
No, my friend does it now and he says it’s super easy and he could probably get me the job. I’ve actually been doing nothing but piling out.
Would you rather be able to do a standing backflip, or a triple kickflip every time?
Triple kickflips are gross. I guess backflip would be more fun.
What’s up with Capture?
That’s my homies company out of Portland. It’s super rad. I love those dudes, I got their back, they got my back. Just a small grassroots company, and dudes are just real ass skaters. Hopefully you’ll be able to buy those boards outside of Portland soon.
What does yr dad do for NASA?
Oh shit. Honestly I don’t know much about that. I just know that he doesn’t work for NASA directly, he works for a project funded by them. It’s something to do with a program that’s supposed to replace the space shuttle. In the next ten to twenty years they’re trying to get civilians to the moon and Mars, and land on meteors and shit. So he just works out some technical shit with like water, and going to the bathroom.
Shitting in space?
Yeah, something like that. Something about going to Mars, hopefully one day I’ll have a ticket so holler at me.
Are you super into space?
I mean I’m pretty spacey.
Do you believe in aliens?
Pfftt, obviously. Anyone who doesn’t believe in aliens is fucking dumb. How can you think that in this infinite universe there’s only one tiny spec of life? I feel like no one really cares about that shit though, I even ask my dad about it and he doesn’t care and he’s working on the space program.
Do you think aliens have already came to Earth?
Oh yeah, they’re here all the time. I guarantee it. People are gonna find out soon. I don’t want get all into it…
What do they want with us?
I don’t know! I don’t know much, I just know that they come here all the time, there’s been way too many reports, and I know people who have seen UFOs and shit. I haven’t personally… I don’t know what the fuck is going on, but I know they exist.
So what are some of yr more outlandish beliefs?
Dude I don’t even wanna go into that, cause I’ll just sound like a crazy person.
What’s up with the lingerie bar on Clement street? When you bailed on the session and you went to this little bar where Asian girls dress up and serve you coffee.
I don’t know, you got the story mixed up. They weren’t even dressed up, I was kinda disappointed. But when I went to Japan they had all sorts of crazy maid cafes and shit. People over there pay money just to hang out and talk to girls. They’re like hookers but they don’t even touch you.
So when you went to Japan you bought a talking hooker?
I mean you don’t buy it, you pay for like a half hour. And I did go.
Just to talk?
Dude it was so stupid, cause I don’t speak Japanese and the chick I was trying to talk didn’t speak any English. But they pour you drinks while you’re talking at least.
Was the skating good?
There’s honestly not as many spots in Tokyo as I thought there’d be, but it snowed too. You just gotta know where to go and where not to go in winter. But I did get to skate some rad shit and it was cool.
Whats the best conspiracy theory you know?
Damn there’s so many good ones. I’m gonna have to think about that for a minute… Can I hit that?
What’s the nicest thing you’ve ever done?
Man, I don’t know. I’ve been thinking about that lately, you know being a better person, helping people and shit. But really I don’t do too many nice things. I tell girls they’re beautiful a lot.
Got any new years resolutions?
No, just to not blow it.
Aight one more time, favorite conspiracy theory?
The JFK one is too cliche, but I mean there’s AIDs, there’s crack, there’s JFK, there’s MLK, Biggie, Tupac… Oh I’m really fascinated with the one about the reptilians… I don’t even know if you should print this… but the one where the Illuminati has this reptilian race that controls all the world governments and banks and they live in the moon. And that the moon is an artificial object that they created, it’s like they’re satellite. I’m not saying I believe it, I’m just saying it’s a fascinating theory.
Got any long term goals?
Not blow it with chicks all the time.
Aight lemme see yr lighter.

================================================================================

Photos by Geoff Graham
Interview by Larry Davis
Were you born in Baltimore?
Yes, I was born in Baltimore but my mom always wanted to live in Florida so me, my stepdad, and my mom moved. I did third grade all the way to the start of ninth grade there and then moved back. I started skating in Florida and then I moved to Dundalk, which is a suburb in Baltimore. That dude Jason Chapman, Rodney Jones, Bucky Lasek, and tons of skateboarders were from there and I met them all and I started skating with all those guys.
What was the local shop back then?
It was called Sports Elite and that’s who all the higher up’s skated for, like Bucky, Sean Green, all the heavy hitters skated for them. It was like a soccer store that sold skate shit, you know how they had those back in the day? And then after that, Jason Chapman opened Charm. I rode for them for a little bit and that was a falling out, and then Kelly’s Boardshop was in Fell’s Point and I skated for them and worked for them.
Did you ever skate for Pitcrew? There was a video part, right?
Yeah, so I befriended Mark Nichols early on when he was in college. Basically him, Pat Smith, and Jake Rupp, we would all meet up in Baltimore, so I filmed that 153 part. Was I ever really on Pitcrew? No, because I rode for Theory, but they’re my mentors and the best people on earth.
Do you remember your first photo or ad in a magazine?
Yes! There was a company on the East Coast called 13 Colonies, which was a dope ass name and me, Brian Seber, Donny Barley, I Kenny Hughes all rode for them. So anyway, Geoff shot the photo and it was in a
Big Brother
, I think issue two. It was a switch flip sequence down a six stair that’s still here in Baltimore.
So when did you leave Baltimore to do the California thing?
For a while I spent time going out to California and then also going up to New England a bunch. I got sponsored by a company called Media, which was me, Tom Krauser, Jonas Wray RIP, Dave Duran, Josh Neher, JP Jadeed, and Ryan Denman. Back then there were no cell phones, no internet, so those dudes are like “what the fuck are you doing in Baltimore? We don’t know if you’re skating.” I’d never been on a plane in my life and they paid for half my plane ticket. I had just graduated high school in 1995 and flew to California to meet everybody because I was just on flow for the company. After that trip I came home and got on Media fully.
Would you just kind of bounce back and forth between Baltimore, California, and New England?
Yes, until I turned pro. I don’t remember what year it was but I made pretty decent money. That’s when
Transworld
was like milk and army ads, thick as shit. So I was able to get my own place with a dude that I worked with at a cheesesteak place in Long Beach. Eventually Media went out of business and I was working at a Sears. So I decided to move back home to Baltimore and I met back up with an ex-girlfriend from when I was like 18 and that’s my wife Trisha now. But I actually moved back to Philly at first. I knew Philly had more for me and more limelight I guess, and I always liked Philly, it’s fantastic.
How did you link up with the New
England scene?
So me, Toebee Parkhurst, Rodney Torres, Dan Pensyl, Vinny Ponte, we all rode for NSS, Nice Skate Shoes. They were fucking dope. So I get a call from the TM and he’s like “Hey there’s a demo in Portugal, you got a passport?” and I did. So that’s where I met Toebee and then I started going on NSS trips to New England. My first time up there I befriended Adam Clark, who built all the ramps. Amazing skateboarder, but he also filmed, so I started staying at his parents’ house. That’s when I met Dan Dziuban, that was 2000, and I started doing skate camps with Dan at Junction skatepark.
Dan wanted to shoutout
that you filmed four parts for Theory vids and he was wondering which video was the most fun?
Oh the best one and best part I think I’ve ever put out was the
Four Seasons
video. Tobee edited that and he did such a good job. He did all daytime clips and then it switched into all nighttime stuff. That premiere was huge. It was awesome.
Alright, so back to California. You were in tons of
411
’s, how did that come about?
Dave Duran lived in Costa Mesa with Ricki Bedenbaugh. They had this amazing apartment that was rent controlled, in a beautiful neighborhood and that dude Ryan DeWitt, RIP, amazing human, he was living in the garage. He moved out and I took it over. Ricky was the main editor for 411, so he would come home and be like “Gary, got any footage for chaos?” I got an opener in 53 which was like a cover of a magazine for me.
I found this crazy old spread ad for Volcom where you and Bam each have a sequence on it. How’d you get on the Volcom team?
Dude funny story about that. So when I rode for Kelly’s boardshop, the owner made a sponsor-me tape and he loved Volcom and apparently loved porn too. So at the end of the sponsor-me tape he put porn after the skating and I guess the dudes at Volcom were stoked on it. So yeah, me and Bam had that ad, it was in Baltimore. I think it was a switch 180 that Frank Allen shot at the pavilion gap downtown where the skatepark is now.
Pat Smith wants to know why are you so damn good still and is it because of Maryland crabs?
Well I don’t think I’m that good. I just love skateboarding and that’s all I do. You know what I mean? I skate more skateparks now, and it’s definitely not the Maryland crabs.
So you opened Vu in 2008 and you now
have two locations?
Yes, it’s been over 16 years and then we opened up Hampden, that’s where I am now. This area is like the Brooklyn of Baltimore. It’s all Mom and Pop shops, bars, and restaurants. I opened this shop 11 years ago.
How has it been?
I talk to a lot of shop owners and I feel like we’re all numb right now. We all don’t know what to do. We’re all okay, but it’s not great. It seems like the ages of 13 to 20 aren’t skating. My skate camps are completely full, but those kids might not be diehard skateboarders, you know what I mean? We’re in, I wouldn’t say a recession, but people are just scared to spend money.
Skate camps are a big part of what you do. What sort of impact does that have on your business and your
community?
I think if I didn’t do skate camps I wouldn’t be in business. All three of my employees were skate campers and now some of them teach camp with me. You’re planting the seed.
What’s the best and worst thing a customer can do coming into the shop?
I think the best thing is when a kid is extremely stoked to be in the shop and buys his first board and picks every piece out. There’s nothing like it, it’s like watching a kid learn his first kickflip. It does it for my soul. I think the worst thing would be, and it happens often, is somebody comes in with a bunch of shit that they bought either on Amazon or Zumiez or whatever and wants me to put it all together. I try not to be a dick, but I always use the analogy, if it’s an older kid, I’ll be like “You don’t bring a beer to your local bar and ask them to open it and put in a glass for you.” So what we do is charge a $10 service charge.
Best and worst thing a brand can do for a skateshop?
I’m not gonna call anyone out, but basically you get their new product and then you see an ad on social media where the shit’s 20% off with free shipping from their website. Companies need a shop because we’re cool and we’re core, and the backbone of  skateboarding, but at the end of the day we’re the middleman. They don’t fucking really need us. You can just go direct to that company. Except Deluxe. Deluxe is the best in the world of skateboarding.
Shout out Jim
Thiebaud.
Obviously. Absolutely dude. They don’t even sell online! If you hit up Deluxe and are looking at Spitfires and you live in Maryland they’re gonna go “Oh you live here? Go to Vu or go to Embark” You know what I mean? So they’re probably losing tons of money by doing that shit.
Yeah, but they’re gaining cultural cache. People know that they’ve got the deepest understanding of the ecosystem.
Exactly, yes. You can run a shop off of Deluxe only. As far as hard goods. If you just carried Deluxe, you could probably stay in business. I’m gonna say Skateone too, they’re absolutely amazing. I’ll hit up companies to get stuff for skate camps, like whatever they can give me. Skateone will send mini logo decks, they’ll send completes, they send so much shit, and they continuously do that. And the dude from Skateone, Jersey Mike, he’ll show up to my camp and he’ll give out Swiss bearings to my instructors and do a best trick contest. So Skateone is the next best, as far as my business and what they do for me.
Any last words, shout outs, or things you wanna say?
I just wanna thank anyone that’s ever walked into the shop. Without people supporting us we wouldn’t be here, and I just want people to know how important that is. It’s everything. Thank you guys, obviously. My wife and my kids, and skateboarding, it’s the best thing on earth.

================================================================================

What’s up, where’d you grow up?
I’m originally from Verona, NJ and when I was 13 moved to Houston, TX, which was kind of a trip. When we moved there we all hated it, my mom especially. It was just culture shock, you know, kids were calling me a yankee and shit. I didn’t even know what that meant. But every summer we’d go back East to stay at my aunt’s place in Jersey just so we didn’t have to be in Texas.
And how’d you get into skating?
Like around 1984 my friends in Jersey were skating and they showed me the Bones Brigade video, which had just come out at that time. That video just blew my mind, seeing dudes skate pools and doing airs and stuff, that’s insane if you really think about it. So my brother and I saw that and all we wanted to do was skate, but my mom didn’t want to buy us skateboards. Some parents are weird about shit, but like a year later in April my brother and I both got skateboards and went right back to Houston for school. Ended up that the day we got back there was some contest at the one park in the city, and we saw like, Mark Gonzalez and Christian Hosoi, and that was probably the one thing that inspired us to keep skating. I mean, seeing the Gonz in person back then? Holy shit dude. Doing street plants and 180 allies in place, and the leopard-spotted hair wearing shitty overalls. We didn’t even know about skating or who he really was, but he was just so sick. Oh, and then that night we were sitting up on the deck of the vert ramp and Mark did a boneless like right over my head! It’s kind of a trip to think about now…
That’s amazing, so then you moved back East before going to California?
Yeah we moved back at the end of the ’80s and would go to New York a bunch to skate. It was when Shut was first starting, which was an interesting time. They had one of the best teams back then. Then I moved to San Diego in ’92, skating with Brain Lotti and some dudes, and then I moved to SF in ’94 to go to art school kinda, but really I just wanted to skate. So I went for like a year and a half and starting shooting skate photos, and then Greg Carroll asked me to go on a Think tour one summer, and that was basically when shit started for me as far as working in skating. I ended up quitting school when I got back and just started shooting at first for Transworld and then Think stuff, and then Slap after Transworld. Then I started working at Big Brother for awhile.
Alright, we’re getting ahead of ourselves, when did you pick up a camera?
I guess it was around my nineteenth birthday, and funnily enough my brother and I got our cameras on the same day just like our skateboards. We both just wanted to shoot photos of skating, we were just looking at skateboard magazines and that’s honestly what got me into photography. Thank God. Grant Brittain is really the reason, he used to send me film and help me out a bunch. I wouldn’t have been able to shoot skating nearly as much if I was buying my own film that whole time.
I heard you’re a big fan of the Olympus XA camera?
Yeah that’s funny, I just found a bunch of my old ones cause I just moved. My favorite one is the XA4, it’s a 24mm lens and it’s macro so it focuses one foot away, and the strap is also a measuring tape. It’s just so good, I actually just made a book of photos from ’95-2000 shot in New York, and all those photos except, maybe five, were shot on the XA. That’s what I’d carry in my pocket all day out skating, you know?
Do you still process and print all your own stuff?
I used to, but I started getting asthma man. But when Ray Potes had the space at Hamburger Fives, I would just go and develop film and hang out all the time. And then I worked from like 2009-2011. I worked with Ed Templeton in his darkroom, and then started getting so many shows I basically worked for him just printing all his stuff on and off for around four years. So I was in the darkroom so much, and then there was a period when my ex-girlfriend and I moved into a new place and shit got worse. I started waking up at 4am and I just couldn’t breathe for an hour. It was gnarly, and I mean I’m in my 40s now, so I just made a decision that I’m not gonna be in the darkroom anymore. I found a good place to make digital prints so…
Are you going digital also these days?
Yeah, a lot now, for work it’s all digital stuff. I like it, I mean I’ll still shoot black and white film and then digital for color. I was never really into color film anyways.
So how’d you get into the porn industry?
Everyone always thinks that I worked in porno, and that’s fine, I don’t care if they think that, I think it’s kind of funny, but here’s the deal; So late ’90s early 2000s, I worked for Big Brother on salary, shooting mostly in San Francisco. Kosick was down in LA, and Tobin still worked for them a little bit but started doing a lot for them, and then Jackass started, so a bunch of people started working on only that, and one day Carnic called me and asked if I’ move down. So in 2001 I started working at Big Brother, which obviously was in the Hustler building. So I was in the offices for like a year and met a whole bunch of people, who happened to work in porno. One day I got invited to one so I went with this one dude I knew and it was a fucking trip. I had my XA in my pocket, like I always did, and I shot like 10 photos kinda just tripping out. The director was really cool with it and we started talking and it ended up he used to be in that punk band Fear, which was so fucking sick. So I asked him if I could come around and shoot documentary style and he was into it. Then I got busy and didn’t do shit for like three years until I hit him up again.
What made you hit him up again?
Basically I was living in SF around ’03-’04 and was kind of getting sick of skating and stuff, so I would just save up some dough to rent a car and just drive down to LA, stay with friends and just go to whatever address he gave me. I would just show up with my Leica, two lenses, and a bag of film and I was allowed to do whatever I wanted. Just walk around these houses in the valley and shoot anything. So then I met a bunch of people in the industry, and I ended up dating a girl who directed for punk rock porn I guess. But I mean so many of these people I was around were not “porn” people stereotypically, they all had like masters in fine art or filmmaking, and now mostly have really good jobs. They were making some really cool movies man, just way ahead of their times.
So let’s go back to the East Coast and skating New York…
Back in the late ’80s and stuff we’d go into the city and skate with everyone. Kids like Harold and Hamilton and everybody, they were younger but they were down with the older heads that I was friends with. They started skating so young, I think I met Hamilton when he was like 12 or something. Man, Hamilton was from fucking Harlem, and Harold was from cutty city projects in downtown Manhattan, those kids grew up just so gnarly. I remember Hamilton was kind of angry, and now he’s like the most positive, amazing person and I feel like that’s from skateboarding. They started skating and getting the fuck out of their neighborhood and meeting all these people. Skating’s so rad like that…
And how was yr brother involved with Supreme?
So I moved to SF in ’94, and the same year my brother Mar moved to New York and started Supreme with James Jebbia. So Mat ran the store for the first year and was kind of the connection to the skate scene, and made them legit by knowing everyone, since he was sales rep for Deluxe earlier in the ’90s. I mean they were like the first boutique skate shop and I think it was really smart what they did. This was basically the time that I started shooting skating full time, so every summer I would just go to New York and kick it basically at Supreme for a month or two. By ’95 there was that whole new crew that kicked it at Supreme, like Mike Hernandez, Ryan Hickey, Justin Pierce, Huf and all those dudes. I had never really skated with them until that time, and it was just so sick to see that first crew in New York and then the next wave and being able to shoot photos of those dudes.
Any new projects in the works?
Yeah definitely, I just dropped ‘What’s up with the hoods out in Astoria’ and I’m working on this Barcelona scrapbook coffee table book thing from the early 2000s with Paradigm Publishing from Philadelphia. I’ve also got this book I’ve been working on for awhile stemming from my time being around pron. But I didn’t want it to be just another behind the scenes photos type book, so it’s more focusing on the fact that I had a long term relationship with a woman who starred in and directed pornographic films. I basically photographed everything the whole time we were together, so there’s so much to go through. It’s just really personal and sometimes there are things I’m a little leery about putting out in the world, so it’s hard to work on. It’s just about being human, and sexuality…I don’t know, our lives are crazy.
In yr opinion who should win SOTY?
Ishod should be SOTY every year.
So what do you think about the presence of skateboarding on national television now?
I hate Street League and all that shit, hearing the dudes announce it makes me want to punch someone in the face. But I loved King of the Road because of the fact that there’s kids taking shits out of trees and just doing whatever they wanted. I feel like kids who don’t skate are watching that shit and being like are you kidding me? I could live like that? And then Epicly Later’d is our culture being represented properly, by Patrick O’Dell, a real skateboarder. It’s fucking sick, and I hope we continue to be represented in that real way, by our people.
Tell me about this Phil Shao photo.
Think tour, ’95. This was a fiberglass half pipe in St. Louis that shook when you skated it, and that old Kryptonic board with soft wheels was just leaning up against the ramp. Phil just grabbed it, started skating it and just did that starfish like five feet out. Watching him skate transition is like watching Boston skate flat ground ledges and shit. Unlimited possibilities, you could tell him to do any trick and he’d just pull it first try. He’d skate China Banks like a fucking mini ramp, he’d literally be pumping the walls, smith grinding and tailsliding shit while others were trying to get up it. He was the greatest skateboarder ever. The best skateboarder I ever traveled with, or been around to this day, and that was 20-something years ago.
Alright, final question. Would you
recommend staying out late or waking up early?
Wake up early, I’m a morning person. But with that being said, there is something about being out skateboarding at night. To be downtown in a city at 2am with your friends and the homeless people, it’s so special and there’s nothing like it. It’s just freedom man, that what being a skateboarder is.

================================================================================

Interview by Sean Bendon.
You’re from Florida right?
Yeah, I was born in Miami and lived in the Florida Keys for like 20 years.
How was it growing up and skating there?
Just like any other small town, not much to skate. But after a couple years, I started going to Miami a lot. The homie I filmed with, Mikey Bueso, and I started to travel when we got older. And then we just started going to Baltimore for some reason.
Why Baltimore?
Our homie Alex Reyes was going to MICA out there and he skated, but he was so busy with school that he didn’t have time to meet people. He said there wasn’t even a skate scene. But sure enough, we went to visit and met Zach Lyons, Zach Dykes, Chris Teta, Sam Shuman, Willy Stackus, Jason Spivey, Brian Powderly, and that’s how I became friends with all those guys. So then years later I said fuck it and moved to Baltimore for two years.
Did moving there give you a newfound flame for skating?
Oh for sure man. You come from Florida and everything’s so bland and then you go to the northeast and you see this old cellar door, crusty shit that’s been there for years. It gets you so much more psyched. I think it molded my skating to be a little better, more versatile. Being able to skate shitty stuff or whatever the case may be. And riding for Scumco, Pittsburgh ain’t any easier.
What’s up with this nightmare trim I heard about? Brought some out for the Scumco trip?
Not gonna say who, but I got a homie who goes out all the time to trim and he’ll come back with, not really sticks and seeds, it’s shake. It’s pretty much grinded up weed. But he hooks me up for a pretty chill price and I was so broke flying out here that I was like, “Shit man maybe if I just bring a bunch of this I can survive somehow.”So I put a pound in my carry on and said fuck it.
Why did you get banned from Lucky Foods in SF?
Nah I didn’t get banned, I’m just definitely on the watch list. When I got to SF I had no job and the only money I had was for rent. And I remember one day I was in there and I saw this senior citizen on one of those electric carts and he just pulled up in there and just started putting shit in his backpack and yelling and they were kicking him out but he still had all the shit. This dude that’s going two miles an hour is racking all this shit basically being escorted out of the store. So I was fuck this, if I need a fucking t-bone steak and a six pack I’m gonna go get it. So for three months you had to catch me. I would get everything and look like I was gonna pay for it. I’d go to the produce, take my sweet ass time, get the beer, then I’d be at the meat chilling. Just waiting for the electric door to open. Then I’d grab the steak, throw down from the middle of the aisle and skate out. Straight from the sesh. When I first moved there they had no security. Now they have four security guards on deck, a secret shopper, and cameras.
I heard you’re a pretty decent cook. What are you whippin up for the homies?
Most of the time it’s just whatever the homies want. I like BBQing a lot because I don’t make a mess in the kitchen. I’ll make Shepherd’s pie, Philly Cheese steaks, shit like that. I used to work in a kitchen in Baltimore making random hot plate shit. It was this skate pizza bar called Johnny Rad’s. I’m not the best, my sister is way sicker than I am with it. She went to culinary school for four years.
Your sister is also a super awesome skater. What’s it like having a sister that can back tail longer than you?
Long story short she’s the best. I was 16 or 17 when she started skating. My dad was on some macho, chauvinistic shit. We’re Cuban. He got in her ear super tough one day and she ended up going to school for four years. Then she went straight from school into the Michelin chef industry, but she had a shitty experience and quit to clean houses with my mom. She lived in a sailboat for a year and then went to an all girl contest in Seattle and ended up moving in with Vanessa Torres in LA. She’s ripping now. It’s what it should have been. I bought a pair of Adidas on her account the other day. The boy ain’t hurtin no more.
What happened with the Gofundme for your teeth?
I bashed my teeth so hard it looked like I had broken glass in my mouth. I was skating this stupid ass spot. I ran over this puddle and it’s perfect marble ground. I tried to do a fakie back nosegrind and as soon as my wheels hit the ground after the ledge I just shot out onto my tummy and just hit the ground. My shit was jacked. They had to sew my gums closed. Believe it or not I got $1,500 from the Gofundme. Luckily I was on unemployment cause I had to drop another $1,500. What I have done on my mouth doesn’t look like shit, but it cost $3,000. They said if I wanted a grill it would have been another $4,000.
Mind sharing some of your favorite Abair memories? Nose goes?
If you were with the homies and you saw him skating flat and starting to get serious, everyone would be like nose goes. Cause next thing you know you’re sitting around for an hour or two chasing this dude around with a cellphone just to get him that instagram clip. He loved that shit so much. He knew it would drive us insane. He would buy us beers, and I would be like no man I don’t need a beer, I know how much you want this shit. And he would still take me to the liquor store after and buy me a beer and be like “go get another one, you’re gonna need it.” So many memories with that maniac. When I moved to SF was when I got close to him. It was like a whole different Abair. PRetty responsible. Sick ass dude. Always on his shit. Super down for his family and friends. I was struggling when Covid first hit and I wasn’t getting unemployment and he even came up to me and told me he had mad money if I needed a few thousand bucks. I was like bro chill out, I can’t be in that much debt to my friend, I still owe Ty $40.
Thanks for sharing that with me. Got any shoutouts/thank yous?
SCUMCO, BOHTZ, LOOPHOLE, 35 HEMWAY, DAVE ABAIR FOREVER!

================================================================================

Interview by Marcus Waldron
How would you describe your current relationship to photography?
I’ve never thought of myself as a purist, but I only like to shoot film. The foundation of my photography now is kind of everyday life stuff mixed with images of my son and family, my wife, and my dog. I make a living from photography. I think about it a lot. But in some ways, I’m not how you think of a photographer, because I’m not a gearhead, I’m not sitting there thinking about pixels or film grain or any of it really. I just do it as a personal exercise that tracks my own life and keeps me entertained. I like the feeling of going forward, but also building something in the process.
What was your first major interest or passion growing up? Was it photography, art, skating?
For me, it would be skating because we moved from a place with a dirt road to a paved road, and for some reason, I thought that was a reason to skate. And when I was doing it, there were these kind of heavy metal, Metallica type kids that were two to five years older than me. Those were the main skaters that I would see, so I kind of looked up to them as these impossibly cool people. The visuals that came with skating from looking in the magazines were really exciting to me. That was definitely a passion. For some reason, I had the will to sit there and try to kickflip 2000 times till I learned it, that kind of thing. I feel like I learned a lot just from that kickflip. It took so much work, but it was still gratifying and it’s kind of a metaphor for other things later in life.
When did photography come about?
I’m the same age, and grew up knowing Ako and Atiba Jefferson. They’re from Colorado. Atiba started taking photos in high school, and I always thought it seemed like this artsy, hard to learn thing, and I didn’t see the point in it. So I didn’t pick up a camera until I was 21, and I thought that I was starting late. The timing was really lucky because it was right before the explosion of putting images on the internet. So everyone’s shooting, everyone’s having websites and blogs. There was kind of this whole renaissance in photography that was just serendipitous with when I started shooting.
What was the first city you lived in and what brought you there?
I grew up and went to college in Colorado, and the last town I lived in was a small city called Durango. When I was there, I met kids that were from the East Coast and one of my roommates said he would give me a ticket to come visit him. His dad was a pilot, so I flew out to New. York and visited him in ‘98. Then I just moved to New York without knowing anyone other than my friend and just started living there. I got a job at a vegan restaurant and just kept going. So to answer your question, I lived in Colorado for 21 years, and then I lived in New York for 21 years.
How did you get into making zines?
I think it came from the first time I made a zine. I made maybe six copies and I gave out five of them and I got a good response. I gave one to Vice magazine and I started shooting for them from that zine. I gave one to a gallery that’s now out of business, but I got to show some work there. I just felt like whatever my sensibility was at that time was in sync with New York and what was happening, and what people wanted to look at. So yeah, I made the first zine in probably 2002, and I silkscreened the cover, which is something I’ve never done since. It was called Unscathed and it’s a horizontal zine. It was fun to do. I think that’s how I got into it. And then to follow that up, a lot of friends and colleagues and peers were getting into it or had been doing zines and maybe embracing it as this counterpoint to the internet, to always have the tangible thing.
You mentioned you started submitting some photos to Vice, how was that?
So I came to New York in ‘98 and it seemed like around then, and for a few years after, the magazines had a lot of power. There were magazines like Paper, Index, Vice, and it was kind of a big deal to shoot for them. They had a lot of cultural cachet. They would throw parties, they would host bands, and do a lot of stuff. Then Vice kind of became the one that felt like it was for the kids or something. They had an editor, Jesse Pearson and he rounded up all these photographers that he liked that were kind of shooting the opposite of maybe what a fancy fashion photographer would be shooting. It was more low tech. And through that, this kind of loose photo community formed around Vice. If you look at the old issues, there’s people like Jerry Hsu, Leo Fitzpatrick, there’s people that are skate people or skate adjacent that were shooting for Vice at the same time I was. It was just really fun to be in dialogue with all those people through that. And the Vice photo issue was a big deal.
Were you a contributor for XXL?
I have shot for them, I can’t even remember who. I shot Twista that Chicago rapper that does tons of syllables in a minute. I did a few things for them, but it wasn’t all the time. I shot for Rolling Stone sometimes.
For commercial work or to make living, how do you find work?
I’ve always been active on blogs. I started off with Tumblr and I went pretty heavy on that and then I went pretty heavy on Instagram. I’ve always done little books, zines, things like that. I feel like those kind of remind everyone that I’m active. But then the actual source of getting work has always just been through people that I actually know in person. Very seldom have I just been hit up out of the blue to do something without any sort of connection. That goes back to what I said about the community thin where you’re just a part of the community. And one of the benefits of getting little older is some of your friends become high bosses at different places or they become people that can give you jobs. I have had photo agents before. In the end I kind of prefer to not have them. When I do work, I work really hard. I try to make everyone feel good on the set, and try to over deliver.
What about your more personal or artistic work? It looks like you’ve been working on some really cool collages lately.
I’ve always in tandem with working as a photographer, taken different attempts at cracking the art world, and I’ve had moments where it’s working and moments where it’s not. I’m always working on art and the collage thing came naturally as just a boiling down of images that I collected and shot over the years. It’s a fun way for me to live with the work. It’s like this riddle and I’m trying to make it look resolved. It’s not pre-planned, I just start hacking away and listen to music and coffee up and hope for the best. I’ve developed some of my own little twists on some of the stuff where I’m using all these die cut stickers and layering images. That’s been super rewarding to work with the imagery that way. This is a side note, some of them I did for GX graphics.
What’s up with
Both
, the video you did recently?
I’ve seen so many videos and so many photos on Instagram that I wanted to put a new spin on it. I started basically shooting myself shooting the photos. So I’m filming myself as I’m shooting and you’re seeing the photos pop up as they’re being shot. Sometimes I’ll prop up the phone just a little bit away. Sometimes I’ll be holding the phone in my left hand and my still camera in my right hand. You’re just seeing behind the scenes and in front of the scenes at the same time. So it’s called Both because it’s photo and video. And with that one I just got really lucky to have access to some heavy skaters in my first little video.
Did you ever film skating seriously?
ere were a few times the VX got
popular and around ‘99 was one. I bought
the camera with tips from working at
a restaurant and some time slightly
a  er that, the death lens came out and
I bought that. I’d say I   lmed for six or
eight months and then decided it wasn’t
what I was trying to do right then,
partially because the pay was crazy low.
You would try to shoot for 411 and they’d
give you like $15 for a trick and $20 for
a line or something. Don’t quote me
exactly, but it was something really low.
But what happened is I ended up making
this bike messenger   lm called
Pedal
using the death lens, using the techniques
that I’d learned from shooting skating.
There were a few times the VX gotpopular and around ‘99 was one. I bought the camera with tips from working at a restaurant and some time slightly after that, the death lens came out and I bought that. I’d say I filmed for six or eight months and then decided it wasn’t what I was trying to do right then, partially because the pay was crazy low. You would try to shoot for 411 and they’d give you like $15 for a trick and $20 for a line or something. Don’t quote me exactly, but it was something really low. But what happened is I ended up making this bike messenger film called Pedal using the death lens, using the techniques that I’d learned from shooting skating.
I was going to ask how Pedal came about. How was that filmed? Skateboard and bike?
It’s mostly big wheels on a cruiser board, and then some of it’s bike, maybe once I borrowed a moped or something. There’s a few shots that are mounted onto bikes and stuff. But yeah, it’s mostly skateboard filming because it’s mostly interviews rolling with the dudes.
You seem to have an interest in photography as art. Would you agree with that? Do you have any art photographers who inspire you?
Okay. I definitely think photography is art, but I think it’s really hard to monetize it as art. In the art world. It’s hard to sell prints. People seem to see the value in painting way more than they do a photo. I like living with photography, other people’s work. It’s got a personal feel to it. Other people that do it well that I’ve been inspired by, they’re really obvious. I looked at William Eggleston, he made The Guide, and that was enough for me to be excited about it long term. I look at cinema and films, and look at it as almost the same thing it combines photography and music and editing and all these things, and I’ll feel inspired for years sometimes. There’s an old movie
Gimme
Shelter
, it’s an old Rolling Stones documentary. I saw that early on and just felt excited by every still from it.
Have had any shows recently, or have any coming up?
In January I’m doing a show at Gallery Target, which is in Tokyo, which I’m excited about. An old friend runs it and it’s a cool space. I haven’t been there in some years. That’ll be showing new stuff, which should be cool. And the last show was a group show in the Rockaways called The Garage.
Any advice you would give to somebody looking to get into photography?
Keep making personal work. I see a lot of photographers that do things just for brands or they only pick up the camera when it’s time to make money. But if you’re able to keep yourself entertained by shooting personal stuff, I think in the long run that becomes the most rewarding work. If you look at old photos of Gonz or something, half the photos of him are just these amateurish, not even perfect photos, maybe he’s not even doing the grab yet, but they’re kind of the best stuff. I like that kind of unpolished, keep it going, kind of vibe. I’m always looking for that.

================================================================================

Photos by Zander Taketomo. Interview by Jawn Doe.
What have you been up to today?
Summer’s finally here in Scandinavia, it takes a little while for it to arrive. I’ve just been outside being in the sun, skating, swimming in the ocean.
Did you skate today?
Yeah I’m actually at the skatepark right now, at this concrete park, but it’s mostly transition here so it’s kind of hard to skate. There’s some ledges and some flat rails so it’s fine.
What’s up with that plaza you always skate in Malmo?
Oh, that’s the baby right there. That’s what we’re talking about. That’s the mushroom. The ledges are actually put there for skateboarding. There’s a guy that worked for Malmo municipality and he pitched the idea when they built the new area like “how about we put some skate obstacles there so skateboarders can be there and it’s a place where something is happening and not just drunk people.” It’s there for skating and I love it.
How often do you go there?
Too often. As much as I can. It’s perfect. It’s like that place when you don’t want to skate one day but then someone says “but let’s go to the mushroom and do some backlips!” And you’re like “Ahhh, let’s go.”
What’s another one of your favorite skate plazas?
There’s a lot of them. It sounds cliche but I do like MACBA. The ledges are destroyed grind-wise but it’s like the best flat in the world and it’s so fun to be there you don’t even have to skate. You just sit there, open a can of beer and just watch people. They’re not the best ledges but the atmosphere is just so funny.
How did you start getting hooked up with skating?
It started in my little hometown outside of Malmo. There were only like three people skating in that town. They were all brothers and I was in the same class as the youngest one. One day I went over to his house and his brothers were skating outside and I was like oh this is something new. I tried it, got hooked on it, and started skating. The first time I got sponsored was here in Malmo in a competition, I was like 14. I did really bad, to be honest like fifteenth place or something really shitty. But there was this one Swedish guy that came up to me when I was standing in the line to get a coke and he just tapped me on the shoulder like “Hey my name is Christina and I really like the way you skate. I got this brand called Riverfarm I want to flow you. You can buy boards from me cheap.” My dad was there and he came in like “Hey you’re talking to my son what’s this about, what’s the deal?” But that’s where it started.
You’re on WKND now? How did that happen?
Grant and all the WKND dudes were in Malmo one summer and Karsten Kleppen, the Norweigian skater, he called me and asked if I wanted to show them around and I was down. I met all of them and it just happened naturally.
What’s the oldest clip or photo you have of yourself skating?
One of the brothers that skated when I started skating had a camera and we filmed some little parts when we were kids. It’s on YouTube actually. I think I’m 12.
If you had to get another pet besides a cat what would you get?
I want to say a tiger but that’s impossible. I think it’d have to be a dog. But I like felines. I want a lynx, I want a tiger, I want them all. I’m the cat man from Netflix.
What have you been up to besides skating?
I’ve been working a bit at my old job. I work at a hardware store, you can buy power tools and all that shit. So I been working there in the warehouse just packing orders, packing shelves, being blue-collar as hell. Smoking ciggies driving the forklift. It’s good to do something otherwise I’d just be at home playing video games, getting fat or something.
Any trips coming up?
I filmed a lot with Mulhern from before the pandemic so there’s something coming out soon for Adidas. I don’t know when.

================================================================================

This place reminds me so much of The Wig. It sits just behind an abandoned recreation center. The best part of it is seeing everyone come together for common good. There are so many different weird things to skate that you rarely see at skateparks, and it’s great to see that it’s not all built by the same person. As time goes on it seems to get better and better, can’t wait to see what gets built next. I feel super lucky that we have something like this again. -Evan Hutchings
Interview from Derrick Dykes.
Last time we did a feature with you guys The Wig was still standing. It seems like a lot has happened for Detroit skateboarding over the last two years. What are some highs and lows?
The Wig lost it’s fight with gentrification on September 19th, 2019. It suffered the slowest death of all time and will be remembered by thousands. Fortunately, it’s not all a loss because we identified a new space about 300 feet away where 5th Pocket will be building us a new plaza in 2021. Jesse and Sloan have really been doing some great things across the world and I’m excited to see what they can do here. It’s a perfect fit. But, just before that, we opened Riverside Skatepark, a 20,000 sq ft gem built by Grindline. It’s definitely a different vibe then what we are used to here. We worked so long on getting that big, shiny, million dollar park and now that it’s done, I rarely go there. It’s lit all night and almost always busy. It’s really great to have, but it’s not the heartbeat of the scene here.
Community Push has really grown as well. What’s going on with the non-profit and what are some accomplishments you’d like to share? What’s next?
When I started CP in 2014, I wanted to use it as an instrument to be able to do The Wig, while we worked on the larger scale, regional park that ended up being Riverside. But since then, it has turned into much more. It really grew too much, too fast and I wasn’t ready. I struggled to build consistency with it’s staff and operations and just tried to do it all myself and in doing so, burnt myself out. After a two week long pop up we did for “Murals in the Market” the weight of it caught up with me at once and I thought about just walking away. It was working well better than I ever had dreamed, it was and continues to be a success, but I wasn’t happy doing it. I realized I wasn’t going to be able to fix what was ailing me on the fly, so I took some time off and started seeing a therapist. I was fighting with anxiety and depression and had to get control of my own affairs before I could put any more of myself into this. I was falling apart, I didn’t want to skate, let alone volunteer my time helping skateboarders. I was on empty. But over the last year, I’ve learned more about myself than I have the previous ten, and I’m really excited to start CP all over again with some new faces and we’ve got an indoor project coming up as well as a handful of other park/spot projects to come in the next two years. I want to reach every corner of the city before we are done.
How are the twins and the rest of the kids from the Wig doing these days?
Unfortunately, the gang has been kind of split up since The Wig got dozed. Amir and Rashad moved out of the neighborhood and Jamaree and DaiDai haven’t skated as much as they used to. They’ll still get together when they can get rides and such, but it’s not as easy as it was for them before. I miss seeing those kids all the time, it was really motivating to me seeing them fall in love with skateboarding and progress as fast as they did. They kept me in check.
So what’s up with this new spot? City approved diy?
Bishop kind of popped up when the city closed down Riverside for Covid related reasons. A local, Jameson brought up a couple of wooden boxes and it didn’t take long for the cement to come after that. It’s been really cool to see how everyone has come together to work on the space. Almost every build has been a different crew and it’s been like a chess match and speaks volumes of the strength of the scene here. Skateboarders, rollerbladers, and BMX’ers all getting their hands dirty. It’s a bit different than The Wig in the sense that we had got permission to build before, and now we are retroactively trying to adopt the land so it can be a staple for years to come.
This curb taco looks amazing, anything else going down before winter hits?
I’ve wanted to build that thing for years. Joey Pepper sketched it up a few years back as part of this design workshop we did with Levis’ and later built it at their indoor (The Grotto). When it was our turn to build at Bishop, that’s all I wanted to do. I hit him up for dimensions and he sent them over with some pointers on what they would do differently if they could do it again. So we took their advice, and it’s one of the coolest things we’ve built so far.
You work for the city now right? Did you ever expect illegally building something would lead to working for the government?
Man, I never thought building shit with my friends would get me to where I am now- with CP, or my day job. But, I’m about two years into working for the city’s Park Development Unit as an operations assistant. It’s been great so far and I love the people I work with. They know my background and know what I love to do, and they are letting me do my thing. Skateboarding is such a small part of recreation as a whole, but they recognize the strength of the skate scene here and have started to invest in it. For what it cost us to replace a slide on a playground, we can repurpose an old tennis court into a new spot. So we are starting that next year. You don’t need a million dollars to build a skatepark, you need a creative rec department that trusts skateboarders.
Any advice to people trying to get involved and really do something within their communities?
Any and all help is important. The person picking up the empty bags of Quikrete are just as important as the one holding the finish trowel. It’s always going to be more work than you anticipate and don’t be afraid to ask for help. Nobody does this on their own.

================================================================================

Name, age, hometown?
Leif Hauge Jr., 20, Virginia Beach, VA.
What does East Coast skateboarding mean to you?
Raw as it gets. Shitty spots, shitty cops, real ass people.
Favorite place to skate in the east?
Probably DC/Northern Virginia.
Go to spot back home?
Virginia Beach oceanfront.
Who did you skate with in Virginia Beach?
I got a big group of guys over there. Jacob Austin is like my little brother, he’s on the come up, you’re gonna be seeing a lot more of him soon guaranteed. I have my homie Michael Lukeson, Austin O’Brien grew up skating with them and filmed a video. Also grew up skating with this dude Afton Gaspar, he doesn’t skate that much anymore.
How long did it take you to film that
video part
you just put out for Cardinal Skateshop?
I filmed it in the months of June and July
When did you first start getting affiliated with Cardinal?
Once I started skating more often, and ya know, getting to know the local scene, Cardinal was always looked at like “that’s the fucking shop!” Like 100% skater owned. Everyone backing Cardinal were real skateboarders. I was surrounded by the big dudes killing it at the time, like Chris Wimer, Dylan Atterson, and Dan Jackson. All those dudes made videos that I watched since I was a kid skating and looked up to all of them and they all rode for Cardinal. Then I was hanging at the shop a lot more when I was 15 or 16, and ended up becoming real good homies with Jason [Hawkes, owner of Cardinal], and supported it from then on.
When and why did you move out to SF?
Basically SFSU, it was the only school I got into in California. Literally moved here a week before school started, and didn’t find a place to live until three days before my classes started. Knew nobody here. I met one person at orientation who ended up introducing me to all these skaters freshman year, and after that moment I kinda just mingled around campus and met a bunch of rad skaters. Now I just skate with them all the time.
Why do people call you “weast?”
It’s basically my Instagram handle and that only started because I’m originally from the east coast and moved out to SF to go to school.
How do you feel when the homies call you by your Instagram handle instead of your real name?
At first I was like, alright, it’s kinda funny, ya know? It’s a little bit different, but now I back it. It’s kinda weird how strangers will come up and call me weast as well. But I feel like that’s just us in our generation now, like everyone is just calling each other by their Instagram handles.
Do you like it or dislike it?
I like it. Not a lot of people can mispronounce weast. I get a lot of “leaf,” “leaves,” or “leafs.”
What’s up next for you?
Filming a part with Ryan Flores for his full length and hopefully getting more stuff with Anthony Lopez for his next video. Hope to visit the east coast ASAP and skate with all my good homies there.
Any last words?
Huge thanks to Jason Hawkes for everything he’s done for me.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller
Photos by Ricky Aponte
What’s your most controversial opinion on skateboarding?
Belt-less clips are not valid. You need a belt. I’ve gotten into a couple arguments recently about that one…
You’re originally from Connecticut?
Yeah, I grew up right outside of Hartford in this town called Farmington. It’s pretty much in the center of Connecticut.
What’s skating like over there?
There’s a pretty good scene and good spots for sure.
There’s also a lot of skateparks, right?
Yeah Connecticut has so many good parks. My local park growing up was Rockwell, in Bristol. To this day it’s my favorite skate park. I’d go there every day after school. We have every type of park you could want. You can pretty much do park tours all of the time and hit multiple parks in different parts of the state, which I miss.
Now you’re living in Boston. Do you feel like skateboarding or school was a bigger draw when it came to moving there?
Both reasons went hand in hand. I only looked at schools in New York and Boston, but at the time New York was a little too hectic for me and Boston felt a little more mellow, almost like Connecticut. But I definitely had to be in a city for school, I wouldn’t have even considered anywhere not in a city. It wasn’t a super hard decision.
Last year you graduated from Massachusetts College of Art and Design, what did you get your degree in and what do you hope to do with it?
Photography. Right now I’m a digital retoucher and printer. I work in a photo lab where we do fine art services. I do a lot of restoration and Photoshop and also scan film and print photos. It’s a pretty good first job to have right out of school, I’m definitely gonna keep it for a while. Maybe someday I’ll look for something to do more with photo stuff, but I’m super into the post-production side of things.
Favorite spot in Boston?
JFK Plaza. Unpopular opinion for sure.
Most overrated spot in Boston?
Everyone’s gonna say Eggs but I love Eggs. I don’t know if I have an answer for that. I’ll say Lynch Family Skatepark.
Is it true that you are the most willing dog sitter in the world?
Dude, it’s very true. If anybody in the greater Boston area needs their dogs watched let me know. I got references.
Why don’t you have your own?
I have my own dog at home but it’s my family’s dog. I work all of the time and if I’m not working I’m skating. It wouldn’t be fair to the dog. When I’m taking care of dogs I put my life on hold. But when I’m skating it just wouldn’t work out. It’s for the dog’s sake. It would be selfish of me to get one right now.
Tell me about your ever growing VHS collection.
It’s kind of a new thing. I had to get a VHS TV for a photo I wanted to make, and it ended up working when I got it. I thrift a good amount and started realizing, “oh there’s a lot of VHS tapes” and I’ve been growing my collection. I have certain ones I’m really searching for, but it’s pretty much just any that I like or think look good. They’re only about 70 cents now. It’s not really the skate video route, more like movies. I refuse to buy anything online, it’s all about the hunt for me. Now I have a VHS TV at my house and one at my studio, so wherever I am, I’m trying to watch something on VHS. I think it’s because of the tangible aspect of it. I like having a physical copy of something and not having it be in a computer.
Favorite tape you have?
Probably Blue Velvet. My studio mate, who I kinda got into VHS with, got it for me. She got that online so it’s technically cheating my rule, but that was the one I really needed.
How did you first get hooked up with the Theories homies?
My homie Shawn Mac from out here in Boston rides for Dialtone. I was trying to figure out something to do for boards and was a huge fan of Theories of Atlantis and all the Static videos. So he was like, “yo let me send your footage to Jake,” he’s the Theories TM, but he does way more than that over there. At the time there was no space, but a year later Shawn sent more of my footage and Jake was like, “let’s see what we can do. We’ll flow you boards and see if a space opens up.” It turned out that Nyle Lovett, Nick Rainey, and I were all in a similar position. Jake wanted to film a video and see what happens, and now it’s developed into a legit board brand. So it was through Shawn Mac and then Jake taking care of me.
What’s up with Ted’s video? I know he’s been working on something.
Ted and I have been working on a homie video for probably three years now. We kinda put it on pause to film for the Theories project. It’s pretty much the same deal though, just doing what we were already doing. There’s technically a deadline for that but none of us are really pressed for it. Right now we’re grinding, trying to finish it up this summer.
Does typical roommate drama ever get in the way of going out and skating?
I mean it does sometimes, but that’s my best homie for sure. He’s a very straightforward person, so if he has a problem he’s not gonna just mope around and not bring it up. He’s helped me to be like that too. We fight all of the time but we never stay mad at each other. We’ve lived together for three or four years so we know what it’s like.
Last year you put out a photo zine. Are you ever going to make another?
I’m actually sitting at my desk right now staring at InDesign because I’m making one for Orchard. Most of the team just went on a trip to Pittsburgh and Ohio. Armin gave a camera to everyone who didn’t have one already and gave us all a bunch of expired and unexpired film.We all shot photos and I processed them all at work. Now I’m putting together a zine that will hopefully come out with this edit we made from the trip. So that’s what I’m doing with zines.
Who are some of the people who keep you going or support you?
Obviously, I need to say my parents and family, nothing would be happening without them. My sister Katie, she just got married so congratulations to her and Lucas. Shawn Mac and Ted, they do so much for me, Ted especially. He cares so much about his filming and puts in so much effort that can sometimes be overlooked. Jake Todd and Josh Stewart at Theories for giving me opportunities I never thought I’d have. My good homie Leif Hauge, I need to shout him out. My boss and coworker, who let me leave work for long periods of time to skate, Armin at Orchard. I need to acknowledge everyone at Cutting Edge, that’s the shop in Connecticut I rode for before Orchard. They did so much for me and still do. Everything that happened before I moved to Boston was thanks to all of those dudes, especially Brian, he deserves a shout out. Everyone else I film with, Ricky who’s always shooting photos and gets truly stoked on his photographs. And to my therapist for sure.
Do you plan on staying in Boston? Would you ever move to New York?
I’m chillin in Boston right now and really love it here. My whole support system is here. I love the smaller city aspect of it and I love my job. But honestly, I just took this trip to New York and had a really good time. Now that I have lived in a city I feel like I can handle it better. It would be sick to be closer to Theories, closer to Philly where Jake is, closer to where my parents are. Also for photo work that’s the place to be. I can’t lie and say it hasn’t crossed my mind over the past week. Either way I’m gonna start taking way more trips out there.
What do you plan on doing when this call ends?
I’m pretty much done with this zine, I just need to send Armin a proof of it. After that, me and my roommates have plans to watch VHS on our porch. My life is pretty predictable.

================================================================================

Name, age, and where you from?
Will Mazzari, 21, Boston.
How long you been rocking with DGK?
Just about 5 years now.
How was it filming for this DGK part? Looks like a nice mix between east and west coast clips, how’d you pull that off?
I was living out in Long Beach for a year or so just cruising out filming with the squad. At the beginning of April when COVID-19 was just beginning I headed back east and was able to squeeze in a few more clips in Boston.
How was it like being in Cali? Did you miss the east?
Amazing weather of course and plenty of skateparks and spots. I didn’t miss the east coast much while I was there but I’m happy to be back.
Eggs or Jkwon?
Eggs.
What do you do for work when you aren’t in the streets?
Paint houses.
How was it traveling the country with Stevie Williams, giving boards out to the youth?
So sick! Stevie is a legend on and off the board. Was dope to spend a month chilling in the van and getting to know him better. It was also an amazing experience being able to give back new completes to lower income neighborhoods all cross America! The kids were super hyped.
What’s next?
Just skate and film as much as possible and get started on some new projects.
Thanks for your time G. Any thanks/shout out?
Stevie and everyone over at DGK, Mike Sinclair, Rice, Fiske, Liam, Tsav, Eastern Boarder, Nike, Mob, Bronson, Independent, Volcom, Raw, my parents. ROB PONTES RIP.

================================================================================

Interview by Marcus Waldron
photos by Elias Parise
Let’s talk about Coda
.
It’s been twenty years. It’s crazy. The running joke has been that we can’t even go out of business right. Twenty years ago I was just bored and wanted to make something. I was in between sponsors, and Autumn Dave helped me out a little bit with sharing ideas and we just made a graphic. We made some boards and he bought 50 of them. All my friends owned shops, which were all the best shops on the East Coast, and they all bought some. Then people wanted to ride for it for some unknown reason. It snowballed and we made a video and all of a sudden it was twenty years.
When did you move to New York?
I was getting Real flow and that was back in the day when it was like “oh you want to ride for a big company? You have to move to California.” So I moved to the Bay Area around ‘95 or ‘96. I always had family in Staten Island, and ever since I found skateboarding I understood how important New York was for skating, especially from where I grew up in the middle of nowhere in Maryland where I had to hike an hour through cow fields to get to a mini ramp. I moved to Staten Island and then I moved into Brooklyn sometime around ‘98.
And you’ve been here ever since?
Yeah. I tried to move to Portland, I mean, we can get into the drinking and the drugs… That stuff will chase you until you deal with it.
What happened when you moved
to Portland?
I kept doing drugs and drinking.
Why did you move to Portland?
To get away from drugs and drinking. They call it “pulling a geographic”. I needed a change but it wasn’t the change that I needed. That’s kind of a broader, longer story. But I met a lot of great friends and had a great time. New York will change you, whether you love it and you live here for the rest of your life or not, it’s going to affect the way you see the rest of the world. I mean the utmost offense to everybody who loves and lives in Portland when I say this, that is the most racist place I’ve ever been. Because liberal ideology around progressive ideas creates giant blind spots which does not allow them to be self aware enough to judge themselves.
Favorite thing about New York?
I’ve always loved so much about it. Everything you want is here, whenever you want it. There’s freedom in chaos. You can hide in plain sight and do whatever you want. Become whoever you want. You can find your people in New York. You can go from the most fringe, outcast, sub-group in your little podunk town wherever you’re from to being who you want to be and finding your friends, and your influences and that’s more important than anything else. Plus you can get all the food, whenever you want. You can develop a great drug and alcohol habit and never have to drive drunk in your life. And on the back end of that, having gone through it, you can find a huge support group for getting off drinking and drugs.
You’ve been building ramps a long time, when did you start and do you remember your first one?
Growing up, if we wanted to skate we would build stuff. This was around the mid eighties, and every neighborhood had a skate crew and every crew would try to build things because no one had any skate parks. They would be building out our neighborhoods, and we’d go and steal the wood, then make ramps in front of the house they were building, and we would never get in trouble. If they were building a new house there would just be this shitty, wooden skatepark out in front. And I always liked to think that the carpenters would be looking outside like, “We should probably say something… But that’s pretty impressive! Maybe we should give them a job…” But that’s where I learned to build because we all needed to make our own stuff just to have something to skate.
What would your dream ramp be like?
I think like a three foot little koi pond that went to like five or six for a proverbial deep end. Good transitions, good flow, definitely not something that would be aggressive or gnarly. Something you’d have your friends over for a barbeque and skate. That would be the perfect ramp. Not something that people are coming over to try and shoot a photo on. Cool shape, trees, the grill, friends, no HOA.
Did you get banned from Thrasher?
It was a soft ban. I don’t know… Yes.
Why?
Somebody recently told me that Jake Phelps and I were very much alike, and I never saw it that way but we’re both just loud and opinionated and that can clash. It was Jake’s call, it was Jake’s mag at the time, and rest in peace Jake. He had a lot of strong and good ideas and kept skateboarding core, and nothing but respect for that. I just think that he didn’t like me and I didn’t give a shit. You gotta have respect for certain people and I’m a little bit of a punk and always will be and I’m not gonna respect you just because you’re an “authority” right? I’ll never actually know, but I can tell you it was probably more than a handful of little reasons that added up. Anybody that knows me would be like, “Yeah, I could see that.”
But they ran a lot of photos of me. My favorite one was AWH, which is one of Coda’s distributors, wanted to run a Coda ad so I gave them a photo. They ran the ad and everybody at the mag knew Jake’s take on it, so they actually snuck it in last minute and ran it to print, gave it to Jake to OK the mag, and Jake goes “No way is Pat Smith getting a photo in the mag” But they were like “Sorry, it’s already to print.”
When did you stop getting paid to skate?
Uh, I technically never got paid to skate. I got photo incentives but I never got a monthly check. But I mean I got perks. I got to travel, I got per diem and every contest I was perpetually 11th, so I’d get $100 bucks. Big purse money back then. I had a good little run, but it was also a different era. Am’s just weren’t getting paid.
How did Max Palmer get on Coda?
Max is from Ohio, and my friend Brendan Nemire is also from Ohio and when we lived together in Portland, Oregon we kinda had access to the Nike park. One time Max was in there and was skating this fucking board that had like no bushings in it, and two bolts holding his truck on. I dunno, Max is Max and you can see how talented and creative he is instantly. I was just like, gotta get him on Coda.
And what about Shinpei?
Shinpei came out with the Kukunochi guys, and Shinpei is a character, same thing, just super talented and I put him on for a little while. He said to me once that the way we did Coda is what gave him the inspiration to start Evisen and make his own thing with his homies. That guy is creative on and off his board and I’m just a super fan of Shinpei. He’s always done his own thing and had a unique take on the world.
Want to talk about your health?
Sure. I don’t know how to have this discussion without being too graphic. I was shitting blood every hour and I woke up one night and nothing worked in my guts. So I went to the doctor and got a colonoscopy and they were like, “You got a tumor. Doesn’t look good.” I went through a bunch more tests and scans and it ended up being cancerous and I’m on chemo now. I’m on a fundamentally new adventure that I’ve never been on and I’m managing it. Leaning hard on my friends and I’m learning a lot about myself. I’m making a bunch of bad, dark jokes that I very much enjoy.
I’m still just trying to do all the things that I love because that’s the whole point of trying to get through this shit. Cancer sucks, it does. But in this day and age a lot of people have cancer and a lot of people have gone through it, especially at my age. I have a really good support group and it sucks that they’ve had to go through similar things to have this knowledge and this skillset. It’s scary, but medicine is also way better than what it was. This isn’t like witchcraft now, it isn’t fun, but my other choices are really not fun.
Is there a new Coda video coming out?
These things take fucking years. Yeah, we sat on a bunch of footage over the years. Started around Tony Farmer just accumulating a ton of pool footage working on a project and in the interim the rest of the team started adding up a bunch of footage. We went on some cool trips here and there. One of the beauties of skateboarding is you can have footage that’s a couple of years old but if your skateboarding is any good, it’s timeless, right? I’m getting excited just thinking about it, the video is gonna be good. Elias Parise is helping us put it together.
After riding for different skate companies then starting your own, was anything different than you expected?
When I started Coda, it was sort of a punk rock aesthetic, contrarian to the status quo by nature. I’ve seen the industry and I’ve seen how it worked or didn’t work. Everybody is trying their best to figure this new thing out. Skateboarding is new. I started Coda to be a brand that was sort of the antithesis to corporate skateboarding. Coda has never made any money and will never make any money. I say that meaning any profit that we make is going to go directly back into skateboarding. When we make a little bit of money from sales or building a ramp or something, that goes back into the community whether it’s giving out more skateboards to just a random friend, or being able to support women in skateboarding, or somebody young, or somebody old like Tony Farmer. But here we are, twenty years later, doing it completely wrong and still doing it.
You got any last words or thanks?
I mean, aren’t I supposed to thank my psuedo- sponsors? Weren’t we supposed to start with “My name is Pat Smith, I’m fifty years old and I live in Brooklyn, New York….”
Nah we can skip all that.
But I do have to thank them! Thank you Vans for keeping me laced up for whatever I’m contributing to skateboarding, I don’t even know why I’m getting free stuff. Noah clothing, Spitfire wheels, Independent trucks for life, questionable tattoos and everything, I got it. I’ve also been trying to kick myself off Coda forever.

================================================================================

Who are you and what do you do?
My name is Jenna Hirt. I’m a skateboarder and I also started the organization Donate for Skate about two years ago.
How and when did you get into skating?
I started skating in 1990. When I was a kid growing up in California I was surrounded by it and my friends all skated. I moved to Daytona Beach in high school, where Stone Edge skatepark was. It’s one of the oldest, longest running skateboard parks besides Kona. I bought a Matt Hensley at Stone Edge, started skating and never stopped. I pretty much grew up skating there, I’m super lucky because it was the Mecca for everybody who was anybody in skateboarding at that time in the ‘90s. All the older guys would come from different states, crews, and countries. They’d either stay for a week, a few weeks, a month, or would end up moving there to Daytona. I’m so lucky to have started skating under the influence of these older guys who were super agro.
Was it difficult to be a female skater at that time?
No, I didn’t even know that that was a thing. When I grew up skating at Stone Edge I was the youngest girl. There were girls like Jenna Bryan and Judy McDonald who I looked up to, but they were a couple years older. I was always little Jenna. Everyone was always drinking and partying, and I was only 13 or 14, but everybody looked out for me. It’s so funny looking back, but up until 10 years ago I had never skated with girls. Jenna and Judy would be there sometimes, but they were off traveling, they were skating contests. I was still in high school so I wasn’t traveling. I skated with all these older dudes. People that were just our friends. It wasn’t weird, I never really thought about it.
When did you start working with concrete?
For the last six years or something it seems like a lot of DIY spots have been popping up everywhere. Everybody wants to get their hands dirty, of course I want to skate it, so why wouldn’t I want to help out? At one point I was in India on the all girls skate India tour, and I was talking to Jonathan from Confusion. I don’t know how it came up, but he had mentioned there was a build that was happening in Ethiopia, and I was like “Oh my God, I would totally be down!” He just knew that I loved to travel and go to crazy places to skate. He had heard about that build with Make Life Skate Life and then he hooked me up with Jon Chaconas and that was my first full-on beginning to end build, I had never done that before. Ethiopia was a really cool introduction to building. From the get go you’re coming into a place where you’re not really sure who’s setting up the situation. Normally when I travel I have to figure everything out myself, like where I’m skating, where I’m eating, where I’m going, and this was the first time it was in someone else’s hands. There were also like 16 other people I didn’t know, but they’re all skateboarders. You make little connections, then it turns out that you’re skating with a bunch of fucking people that you’re having all these crazy experiences together and you’re already connected by day one because you’re all just like “what the fuck is going on?” and you figure everything out together.
You’re all over the map pretty regularly. Do you have a homebase?
I would say Florida. I have a camper and I do have property now. I’ll park my camper on my property when I’m in Florida. Last year I was on my land for probably two and a half months. I’m never really home, but it’s not home, it’s like I travel full time and I hand make my line of jewelry to make my money. I started doing that when I started skateboarding actually. Since 1990 I’ve been making my own line of jewelry and selling it, and skateboarding. It’s crazy to do something for 30 years. I started making jewelry because I needed gas money to get to the skatepark, and to be able to travel to skate. It’s like this cycle of which one follows which.
And you source all of your materials from your travels for your jewelry, right?
A lot of stuff I do when I’m traveling around the world is for fun basically, everything is for fun. Whether I’m helping out building a skatepark or bringing boards to other countries or just jumping off of a bridge somewhere in the middle of Greece. Wherever I’m at I look for markets, out of the way places, or different tribes and find really interesting areas. A lot of my more intricate pieces have like a pendant I got from the so-and-so market in Istanbul, or I went to Thailand and looked for tribes making silverware, or this one time I spent three days looking for a certain area around Shanghai with people in this tribe who make silver. Finally this person gave me directions “by the lady boys,” and I was like “oh, lady boys!” I got there and ended up going to this lady boy show. I was just this small girl and everyone else was in a group, like big parties. They singled me out and I got up on stage and all of a sudden me and these lady boys were doing splits and cartwheels. That’s the cool thing about when I’m traveling to find pendants and stuff, that when I do end up working it into my jewelry, I have these really cool stories too. There’s something about when you’re a girl traveling around with a skateboard by yourself, it’s sort of like a passport to anything. It’s really cool.
How many completes for Donate to Skate do you think you’ve built and given away?
I’ve been able to bring nearly 250 completes to 12 different countries on 6 different continents. I’ve actually been to Antarctica. In 2010 I went on an expedition there, but I’m not bringing skateboards there. My thing that I like to do is bring completes, like entire skateboards. Anybody could bring some wheels or some bearings, but when you just bring that to a kid it’s like “how is this kid ever going to find the rest of these parts?” It’s never going to happen. I really enjoy being able to take actual completes to give to a kid.
How does customs work? How’re you getting through with boxes of product?
It’s different in every country. So far it’s been Peru, Nepal, South Africa, Morocco, Greece, the Maldives, Madagascar, Jordan, Nicaragua, and then Angola and Iraq with some of our friends from the builds. Everything’s gone fine through customs except I did have issues in Madagascar and in Nicaragua. In Madagascar I met these kids and promised I’d come back with boards. So I was waiting for the right time to go back because of these kids I had a super connection with, and I wanted to bring them some decks. I had already bought a flight to go to Iceland, but I decided not to go on that trip and ate the $300 for the flight so I could go to Madagascar and drop these 20 beautiful completes that Steve Van Doren had donated. When I got there, customs was not stoked and they held all my boards. I was lucky that I had friends there, these kids, and one of them met me in the capital and we went to the airport together the next day. It’s so good he was with me, because he had to translate. We were there for six hours at customs, and I basically had to buy back all these boards. I could only afford to get 13 of the 20 boards back because I only brought about $400 cash since I was only going to be there a week staying with these kids. The next week these kids raised enough money to get the rest of the boards so they drove me back to the capital for my flight. They were able to get the rest of the boards from customs and then they took a bus back three hours to their home and then I flew away. The way I look at it is you could stay at 5 star hotel for a week, or spend the same amount of money to bring boards to kids all over the world. It’s like $2500 to ship boards to South Africa. You can’t do it. But it costs $700 for a round trip ticket so just go on vacation and bring the boards yourself.
Yeah it’s pretty much a no brainer.
Yeah. Nicaragua was funny too, Chris Hogan and I went last November to bring boards. I had planned this for a while and was actually going to go in May to bring boards and then there was this crazy situation with the government and it got super sketchy, and it was not a good time to go, people were dying and fleeing. November was a good time, and we brought 15 boards. When we got to fucking Orlando, there’s this stupid trade embargo with Nicaragua where you can’t ship cardboard boxes, and my decks go in a box and the trucks and wheels go in another box. I had everything boxed up crazy with a million saran wrap rolls, a million duct tape rolls. they wouldn’t accept cardboard.
How can people reach out to donate or get involved in Donate for Skate?
If anybody wants to help me get completes to kids around the world, they can message me on Instagram @donateforskate or on Facebook and let me know what they have. I have a storage unit for all the stuff, and I had to move up to a 10×10 because I was running out of room. The main thing is the trucks. If I don’t have sets of trucks I don’t have completes. Last year I basically traveled myself out of stock, I went to too many places in too short of a time. In the last few months I brought boards to Madagascar and Angola, Nicaragua and Jordan. In December and I brought maybe 25 completes to Jordan and that was basically it. Right now, I just need trucks. New hardware is amazing too, so that I’m not re-working and re-threading rusty stuff. If anybody has brand new decks, like shop decks, or small board companies that would like to see that board in another country, anything 8.5 or smaller, I’d accept those too. If anybody wants to have any events, even just get togethers at somebody’s bowl, like “hey we’re having a barbeque. Bring any sets of trucks you have for Donate for Skate.” Put out a table somewhere or a box in your shop for if anybody’s buying new stuff. There’s lots of different ways anywhere around the country to collect stock. It doesn’t have to just be stuff that you have, you know? I’ve had a lot of friends have contests and put it on the fliers, stuff like that. It’s word of mouth, I like it to be as organic as possible. I’m only one person who can only do so much, and it’s way cooler and more fun that way.

================================================================================

Where yah from pal?
Abington, PA. It’s 15 minutes from the city, well uptown at least.
What was it like growing up?
I moved around a lot coming up. Went from Abington to South Carolina, to Cheltenham, to uptown, then back to Abington. Most of my family is from Abington so I spent a lot of my time with them.
Have any hobbies outside of skating?
I just kick it with my friends for the most part, play hella fortnite, and watch mad anime.
Being newer in Philadelphia, what spots interest you the most?
I hate skating blown out spots because it’s dumb hard to think of tricks, it’s too stressful. I like all of the cutty spots the most, shit that looks fire. You have to drive to most of them though, and I don’t have a wheel so I usually just tag along with homies who do and skate their spots. I have to keep them lowkey so they don’t get tight with me.
It’s now 2019, who’s hooking it up for you?
Fucking Awesome, Adidas, Damage Itd, Bones bearings, and Dialtone wheels.
You just had footage drop, tell the people where to find your moves.
My regular ass video part is on
Tracey’s YouTube
.
Who are your favorite people to watch skateboard?
Joey O’Brien, Tyler Diettrich, Kevin Liedtke, a lot of others but, they’re my top three.
Got any words about the Philadelphia skate scene?
I like how everyone knows each other, I think it’s fire. Nobody’s fucking with Philly’s skate scene.
Skating the same city all the time, you’re obviously itching to step out and travel…what’s the destination once it’s time to make that decision?
I have been trying to get to Spain. Madrid looks sick. Plus I want to Jura and see Jaun Viru’s hometown. I heard that it’s beautiful. I also want to visit Paris.
Eventually moving out of Philadelphia, where is your ideal place to lay your head at?
NYC! It’s type lit out there, I love the energy. Plus there’s just so much opportunity.

================================================================================

Name? Age? Current geographical location?
My name is Zach Sayles, I’m 23, and I live in Philadelphia, PA.
How did you first get introduced to using a camera?
It started when I was in fifth grade, when my mom bought me a mini-dv camera. It wasn’t really necessarily for anything specific. At the time I was skating a little bit, but I could probably only do ollies and cavemans. I wasn’t doing a lot of filmmaking things either. I probably only used that camera a handful of times – I ended up finding an old hi-8 that my family used years before and just started using that instead.
You kind of took a step backwards…
Yeah, I’m not sure what I liked about it. It was a clunkier camera and more difficult to work. I was filming skating with my friends in middle school and then in high school I bought a VX-2100. It sucked because right after I bought that all my friends started to fizzle out of skating. It was really just me and one other friend who stuck it out. He wasn’t too good at the time, so I ended up getting filmed a lot more, which was upsetting. I really wanted to film. It wasn’t until the end of high school that I really started filming again. My friend Dylan Pierce started to get back into street skating. He was doing a lot of longboarding, tech sliding stuff…
Damn, throwing Dylan right under the bus…
I know, but he’s sick at it. I started filming him more. I had filmed some riders for Fairman’s skate shop at the local skate park. I wasn’t doing a whole lot of street skating at the time. The biggest trip was when Neil Herrick hit me up on Facebook messenger and was talking about Fairman’s needing a steady filmer. I was in shock because Neil was a dude I had seen in YouTube videos. His skating was pretty insane, even back then. He didn’t know how hyped I was. The first time I skated with Neil, he and Henry Jones picked me up after my shift at the frozen yogurt place I worked at. That was my first Introduction into filming people who were really good. I remember botching the clip I filmed of Neil that day. I cut his feet off entirely. Not sure if he was bummed, but I think he didn’t hit me up for a month or so after that. At the same time all of this was happening, I was also getting into other forms of filmmaking. My school’s TV production course helped with that. I had access to a lot of filming and editing equipment.
You studied film and video at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia. Did that experience help you hone your style of filming skateboarding?
Not really. Watching skate videos was definitely the sole contributor. When i started college, I started watching more skate videos. I was really into Josh Stewart, Cooper Winterson, Nick van Werssowetz. I would just pick out certain aspects of the filming that I liked and try to mimic that. Over time i slowly started to alter the things I took from their styles.
To circle back to your film education, how would you describe the work you do outside of skateboarding?
I do a decent amount of documentary work, but recently just finished a short narrative film. It was hectic. There’s was a lot of planning, pre-visualizing, fundraising, collaborating, etc. It’s similar to skating in some ways; there’s a lot of planning in terms of what spots to go to, or pre-visualizing a trick or how it’s going to look on footage. You’re diving into something and you don’t know the outcome. It’s satisfying. I feel like that’s the way it is with any project.
How did the process of moving to Philadelphia help you grow as a filmer?
What was good about going to the University of the Arts was that they’re not super heavy on the mechanical or technical side of things, which a lot of other schools are. It was more teaching you about how to think conceptually; how every aspect of film makes you feel, think, react. That really changed the way I look at all forms of art. Music had been something I recently have been diving into. I’ve gotten really into film scores.
A big component of a skate video is the music. Are you going for more cinematic approach over a traditional soundtrack?
Definitely. I feel like the music I’m working with isn’t what comes to mind when you think of a traditional film score. For me there always has to be some sort of concept. I’ve never done a skate video like this, a full length video. The concept helps me understand more about how I’m editing it, and also allows it to be its own world. I feel like I see a lot of skate videos where there isn’t a concept. And that’s fine, it totally works, but personally, it’s easier if I have some sort of idea going into it.
Given the oversaturated nature of the skateboard media landscape, do you feel as though it’s a fool’s errand to make a full length video in 2019?
There’s definitely value in it. It’s sick just to make something. The way I see it, it’s a representation of what’s happening within a certain city or a group of people. I would assume when you tell a group of skateboarders about Philadelphia the first thing that comes to mind is like Josh (Kalis) and Stevie (Williams), Ricky Oyola, Love Park, Sabotage, Chris Mulhern. There isn’t a ton of other stuff that gets as much recognition as them. There are so many other skaters that, I feel, need to get noticed. Not even from a sponsorship aspect; these guys are ripping and no one is seeing it.
Who all is having parts in this video and how did you gravitate towards this group of people?
Ricky Geiger, Dylan Pearce, Kevin Liedtke, Neil Herrick, Matt Militano, Josh Feist, Sean Spellissy, Toly Bitny, Kris Arnold, Zack Peacock, Carson Ruether, Eddie Cernicky, Jeff Carlyle. Eddie and Jeff are from SF, but would come to Philly for a couple days at a time, kill it, and then head back. There’s so many names. I never thought there would be that many. When I first moved to Philly I was filming Neil and Dylan. All of Neil’s footage would mostly go to other videos he was working on, so I never got to hold on to those clips. I was filming a little bit with Matt Militano, but he was still living in Long Beach and would come to Philly for a week at a time. It wasn’t until I met you (Sean) that I started skating with more people.
Whose footage are you most excited to showcase?
Everyone’s footage is going to be sick, but I’m most hyped for Dylan’s skating to be seen. We’ve been friends for years, so I’ve seen the progression of his skating. I don’t think people know his skill set and how good he really is. It’s going to be sick for him to have his first part.
To move away from skateboarding for a bit, you recently shot and directed your first narrative film, “Plasma Man.” Can you describe what that process was like?
I co-directed it with my friend Zach Langford and I was also the Director of Photography. It was something that was emotionally and physically draining. I was overseeing every aspect from casting, to fundraising, finding locations, scheduling meetings, choosing costumes, building sets, and making molds. It’s unreal how much work goes into it. I learned a lot about myself through the process. We have e selves to work days to shoot a 20 page script with a lot of set changes, and so much dialogue. It really was a miracle that we finished within those two days.
Can you describe the plot?
The film is a dark, sci-fi comedy set in the near future. It follows the widow of a dead film star who must choose an actor to physically take her husband’s face and continue the movie franchise he starred in, which is where the title of the film comes from.
Now that you’ve completed your first skate video and film project, do you plan on continuing to document skateboarding? Will you still use the VX-1000 moving forward?
Definitely. I’ll probably use the VX-1000 setup for as long as I can. It’s just so much more convenient with the size of it and having the MK1. It’s funny though, because I’ve always had really bad luck with VX-1000s continually breaking, and trying to Frankenstein pieces to make it work again. There’s a certain look and feel to the camera that’s unlike any other setup. I don’t think I could ever go HD. It’s just not as fun. (With the VX-1000) I feel like I’m able to compose things the way I want and stay close, keep things more energetic. I’ve used HD cameras before and it just takes the energy out of it.
There isn’t much footage of Center City in your video. What type of spots do you seek out? Did you actively try and avoid the tropes of Philadelphia skateboarding?
We like skating other shit than what’s downtown. The Municipal Services Building is sick. That place is pretty fun to skate, minus the bums and rats. I guess I’m interested in spots that have a certain ruggedness to them. Philly is pretty hard to skate, whether its shitty ground or crazy people. It’s sick to showcase how harsh the city is, from a different perspective. Philly has a lot of spots and I feel like people don’t really get to see how much there really is.
What’s the the craziest thing you’ve experienced in Philadelphia?
Most of my experiences have been people yelling shit like, “You’re in the wrong neighborhood!” Nothing really physical ever happens, it’s always someone hollering. The one time where something actually popped off was at Muni. Dylan and I got mugged by a bunch of people in broad daylight. I don’t know, something about that’s really funny. Just the chance of going to all these really sketchy areas of Philly and nothing ever really happening, but I’m in the most populated area of the city and I get mugged. Crazy experience.
What are plans or goals moving forward? Any shout outs you’d like to give?
I think after this video I definitely want to put out more short stuff, to consistently start putting out projects. The full length stuff is sick, but it’s a longer process than I want it to be. I want to be doing other film related projects at the same time I’m filming skating. I think the only way to make time for that is to focus on smaller edits and not get so invested in something like the full length video. Shoutout Municipal Skateboards. Shoutout to you for making this all happen. And shoutout to everyone that’s in the video.
You can pick up a copy of the video at
https://vanishvideo.bigcartel.com/

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis.
Photos by Diego Juan Vargas.
Tell me about your childhood in Peru? Not necessarily skating, just lifestyle, experiences, and the culture you grew up in.
Danny Falla:
It was great growing up in Peru. Lots of friends, lots of activities outside like bmxing, soccer, surfing/bodyboarding. We grew up in Lima, and that’s a big metropolitan city, easy to meet people from different neighborhoods and explore. It’s influenced by a lot of American surf and rock and roll culture, I would say, and then skateboarding of course.
Renzo Falla:
Yeah, we come from a middle class family and if you come from a middle or high class family you will definitely have more or less some American/European influence, like in any other Latin American country. Lima is the only capital in South America on the coast, so great seafood and lots of surfing. That combined with the traditions and cultural mixtures make Peru a great country.
How were you introduced to skateboarding?
DF:
I was introduced to skateboarding by Renzo. I always wanted to do whatever cool thing he was doing and skateboarding was and still is the coolest.
RF:
We always had skateboards around. My dad got me a penny board when I was a little kid, then I got a bigger one with plastic wheels. We didn’t know about tricks until one day a friend of mine got a Vision aggressor that his dad got from a friend of his that went to California on a business trip. I got hooked instantly and then we saw the Bones Brigade video, oh man! I was just blown away. I obviously asked for a skateboard right away because we had family living in the US. We started to watch more skate videos and we skated all day every day. It was hard to find VHS tapes or magazines, you had to wait for months.
When and how did Legaña come about? Was it a brand back then or just a crew?
DF:
I was the youngest in the crew, the mascot I remember some would say.
RF:
Legaña was formed in 1987, so Danny was very young. We started skating around and exploring other cities and meeting other skate crews. At that time, all the crews had names and it was cool. When we formed the crew we were into punk rock and we wanted a nasty name, not a cheesy name like most teams at that time, so we called ourselves the Legaña team, which in Spanish means “eye booger.”
What was the mission in those early years and what were some of the things you all did around South America?
RF:
Our mission was progression. There was only one skatepark in the whole city and there were only a few contests here and there, so we started to build ramps in the middle of neighborhoods. We had to fight with police and municipal authorities because they would remove our ramps and we’d have to rebuild them all the time. Then vert kinda died and we started skating street a lot, building boxes and kickers.
What brought you both to New York?
DF:
We’ve had family living in the states since the ’70s and my uncle asked for my mom and us to come legally, which takes about ten years. One day in 1996 we got the call, so we asked for a visa, got it, and then came to NYC and got a resident card right away.
RF:
Yeah, my family told me we are moving to New York and you gotta go to college and work, and told Danny that he had to finish school here. We had no choice!
What motivated you to bring back the brand and how’s it been going?
RF:
When we were a crew we always had to do our own shit. Our own pants, patches, shorts and put Legaña on them, so we had the idea of creating a brand a long time ago. In recent years we got reunited, older, and more experienced so we decided to do it. But we don’t do it for the money, we’re doing it to represent a continent, a country, and to help skaters that have the same dream we had, but never had the opportunity to do it in skateboarding. We want to get other people to know that in Latin America, and in Peru, we have very similar skateboarding stories like in the US and Europe, and that we also love skateboarding.
DF:
Yeah and it’s been going great. We are getting a lot of love from shops, especially on the East Coast, a lot of love from cool people.
Who’s on the team?
DF:
Walon, Fabrizzio Caro, Luis Aguilar, Erik Gilabert, and myself.
RF:
They are the recent onces. We’ve had many rippers since we started, for some reason some of them decided to do something else, but we’re still friends. RIP Mateo Martinez.
What’s the skate scene like in Peru?
DF:
The scene down there is great, with a lot of very talented skaters. It’s even bigger now after the Olympics. There are underground skaters that train and do 540 flips to boardslides. So kinda like here but less companies, the industry is not as organized but it’s getting better and better everyday.
RF:
Yeah it is definitely growing, but sometimes it gets lost in translation I would say. Skaters there think that if you’re a pro skater in the US, you’re doing well financially, but once you are here you know that is not true. So many kids get into skateboarding with the idea of coming to the US to become a wealthy person, thinking that winning contests is everything. We try to educate kids about the fun in skateboarding, the individuality, the art…
Do you have any major goals for the brand? Is there anything you’re excited about coming up?
DF:
Show our roots and culture with our graphics, skaters, and videos. Travel and make great memories. For me it’s such a great feeling to be able to bring some of our riders from Peru to the states. There are a lot of great skaters that dream of coming to the states to skate and experience what it’s like to skate the spots and meet the people here. I was lucky enough to move to NYC as a teen without really wanting to, honestly. I’m also excited for the new video we are working on too.
RF:
Keep growing as a brand and as a team. We would like to include more riders from all over as we progress and be able to show people Peru. We always go once a year and we’re down to bring people to skate there.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller.
What’s good Christian? What’ve you been up to today?
I just got done doing some work, I’ve been helping some skate buddies out doing tree work. Just got off a little while ago and trying to get back out to skate for a little bit.
You’re from Omaha, what’s it like out there?
It’s the biggest city in Nebraska. It’s a little bit slower living than most cities, but it’s got everything you need. There’s enough population that you can have lots of different friends with different interests. Once you get outside Omaha it gets pretty rural in all directions, lots of corn fields.
What’s up with the skate scene there?
Its had a lot of different phases. There’s always been a strong scene out here, going back to the ‘80s with vert skating. There’s been rad people to come out of Nebraska for sure. I’d say Kevin Wilkins and Joe Hammeke are two of the most influential people in skateboarding that have come from Nebraska. They’ve helped inspire so many others. There’s also a lot of up and coming younger people who are kind of thriving right now.
Some of the photos in this interview were shot in New York. When were you out here and what did you think of the city?
I love New York City, it’s one of my favorite places to go to. Those photos were from my first time out there. We had eight days and it was one of the most ideal first experiences in New York. Everyone had a good time and we had the greatest of hosts. We got to see pretty much everything we wanted to see. We left wanting to not leave. That’s a place I can see myself always wanting to go back and visit whenever I get the opportunity.
Have you travelled anywhere else?
For two years prior to Covid I’d go on a Europe trip with a bunch of friends once a year. We’d go to different countries in Europe to skate and film. We’d produce little edits from the trips. Outside of that though I haven’t had too much experience internationally. I really do want to dive back into that now that things are starting to ease back a little bit.
Do you ever plan on leaving Omaha?
You know, I’m definitely at that point, especially after a year of being locked down out here that I’m ready to go see just about anywhere. I love Omaha and can always see myself coming back to this place, but I’m also super interested in seeing some other places that feel like home to me. I lived in California for about 11 years, so I still have tons of great friends out there that I’d love to go and reconnect with.
How has life been for you during the pandemic?
I have been pretty fortunate for sure. I got on unemployment after being furloughed pretty early on. That was super helpful to be able to save up a little bit and figure out what to do from there. With as bad as things can get right now, I don’t think I have anything to complain about. It’s been a slow year, but all things considered I haven’t had any significant loss in my family or friends circle.
If skateboarding didn’t exist what would you be doing?
I don’t know. Maybe a lot of other outdoor activities? I already try to diversify what my interests are because I get pretty burnt out if all I do is skate. I for sure want to be doing something on my bike, maybe hiking, just doing different activities that revolve around going outdoors. So I imagine if I wasn’t skating I’d be more invested in different outdoor activities.
Where do you hope to be in 10 years?
That’s a good question. I don’t usually plan too far ahead but I probably should. I’d like to see myself continuing to travel and experience different areas. I’ve been locked down here and in California, so I’d like to see myself bounce around a bit until I’m content. So if it takes 10 years to be content with travelling that’s sick.
Do you have any parting thoughts?
Shout out to all the homies in Nebraska, to Silo Skateshop, and everyone who’s supported the scene. All the homies in Cali too. Two filmer homies, Dino Torres, he’s been one of our main filmer homies, and Dan Rusin from Minniapolis. Two rad dudes. Thanks to you all for reaching out to me. It’s pretty dope to do an interview, I’ve never done one before. It’s a pretty cool experience.

================================================================================

So where are you in the world, Jah Jah? Last I heard you were broken down in Lincoln City?
We’re doing this now? Yeah, I’ve been broken down in Lincoln City the last seven weeks. I’m on 2% by the way.
Aight we can go until your phone die! We always running on empty anyway.
For real.
What’s up with the bus, though? Tell the good people about your big away with Renette and the doggos!
My girlfriend, two dogs, and I bought a short bus and started living in it. We are just trying to travel as much as possible. About a year in, the bus shit the bed and we’ve been working on it since. Luckily we broke down in the parking lot of the most insane skatepark in the country.
That sounds about right—Doesn’t seem like the worst place in the world to break down! Looks like you’ve been making the best of it, skating Red’s bowl & Kowalski’s yard and shit.
Yeah, Mark and Kevin live near here and have been really kind to me. We have a car rental and have been going up to Burnside & shit. Everyone’s been hooking us up since we’ve been stuck in this bummer situation. Staying in the lot I’ve seen so many people passing through town who rip.
So rad! Skateboarders look out for skateboarders. Think you’ll be able to get the bus goin’ soon?
Hopefully, I’m not really stressing it though. Everyday’s been a new adventure and I’ve been having a blast.
So now, I think it’s time to get to the nitty gritty cause I’m your friend and if i didn’t ask these questions I’d be doing the world a disservice. Why did you want to get Push for Cheese and Push for Chili tattooed over each nipple?
Woah, heavy throwback! I was very poor at the time and living o 7-11. Everything I bought there I would cover in push for cheese, push for chili. I would bring my own bread in there & put that shit on it. They got salsa and chopped onions I would go crazy (laughs).
Yeah, it’s safe to say the x-ins at 7-11 and Loop have kept you alive. Any- thing else you’d like to pass along to the Skate Jawn audience? Advice? Wis- dom? Quotes? Math equations? Cake recipes? Shoutouts?
PABLO RAMIREZ.

================================================================================

Anthony Forbes is a real skate rat, he found in every single place a spot to skate. Only with one dollar he can travel all around Panama City and skate with all the energy from the beggining until the end. You can see him with his skate on his hand and a camera in the other hand filming everything.
He has a repertory of many 80’s tricks on his side, if you see him skating you’ll be influenced by seconds because his style is unique as a skate rat he is.
This photos belong to Max Guardia.
© Max Guardia –  Panama City 2015

================================================================================

Interview and Photos by Bryan O’Neill
So you just got engaged…
Yeah man! Surprised my lady down at the beach. Pretty sick you and I both got engaged this year.
You just got a dog, how’s that going?
Dude it’s awesome. My fiancé Anna works at a children’s hospital and our dog “Bata” is a working dog and gets to go with her every day and work with children. We got pretty damn lucky getting a highly trained dog as our first.
What’s it like growing up skating the Baltimore area?
It’s amazing man, Baltimore isn’t that big so I feel like everyone who grew up in the general area knows each other. Been skating with so many homies for probably 15+ years. For the longest time it seemed like Baltimore would get skipped over with Philly and DC being so close but lately, it’s been cool seeing random teams making trips here.
Kickflips into handrails, you’ve got some of my favorites. Who is an inspiration to you in that department?
Definitely Chris Wimer and Ed Duff. They have been flipping into rails long before I started doing anything like that. The flick lords right there.
In that same thread, your skating is a well-rounded mix of tech and buck. Is there any inspiration behind the tech manuals you’ve been doing?
I don’t know honestly. I’ve always been into trying to skate any obstacle to my fullest, and for some reason manuals are super satisfying to me. I always hear how much people hate doing manuals but I have always enjoyed putting the pieces together. Ridge may have had something to do with it. So many good pads and everyone was always going crazy on them.
Work life mix? How do you balance the two in regards to skating?
Working in a trade has made it harder to skate as much I used to but I find it more rewarding. Working 40+ hours a week and still being able to learn and film new tricks is the best feeling. It was a hard pill to swallow when I decided to go to trade school, but I’m so happy I did it.
Most underrated skaters to come out of the Baltimore area?
I think you and I know this list will be long. Chris Mentlik, Ian Smith, Jeff Sheridan, Sean Powderly, Jim Loebach, John Boretzky, Eric Kunmann, Allen Beers, Jason Bundy, Spencer Brown, Ronnie Clark, I could go on for days.
What does it mean to be “core” in skateboarding nowadays? The other day everyone on the sesh was wearing New Balance, Nike, or Cons. Is there still a place for “core” shoe brands in the market?
Sadly it seems like that ship is sailing. I hope these remaining core brands can stay afloat because it is sad to see your favorite brands slowly crumble. Hyped to see Ipath is back and that gives me hope for the future.
For a while now you’ve been
working both sides of the camera. What got you to start filming, and why VX1000?
I’ve always had a love for filming, growing up with the handy cams. There was a point in time that all our homies who filmed were working more and weren’t available all the time so I decided to buy a VX. Years later Ian and I were filming everyone and made a full length.
Favorite filmers?
Colin Read, Jeff Sheridan, Fath0g, Don Luong, Gustav Tonnesen, John Evans, Nnamdi Ihekwoaba.
Are the Ravens going to the Super Bowl?
Hell no. I wish.
Fishing is a lot like skateboarding?
I like to think it is. Always looking for a new fishing spot and casting for hours hoping to catch something whether it’s big or small, it’s always rewarding. You and Ian have been crushing the largemouths lately.
What makes a skate trip great?
Homies, good tunes, spots, pins to spots, cold beers, cold beers in the van, charged VX batteries, tapes, Mexican food, pool table at the Airbnb.
How long is too long to spend at The Wire spot?
Depends if there’s beers or not.

================================================================================

Interview with Sloan.
State what you go by, age, and your mission here on earth.
Haz- I go by “Haz” I’m 25 right now and my mission here on earth is to leave some shit behind that’s going to inspire someone to do some similar shit basically.
D Dand- My name is “D Dand.” I think my mission in life is to just leave that legacy that I was lucky enough to find in the ones before me. So the people that inspire me, I want to do the same for those to come.
Tell us about the Beat Lampers. Where are y’all from, how long have you been making music together?
D Dand- I’d say in the late 2000’s, I was in a group called Pyramids, which was already Beat Lampers but it was just under a different name and not everyone was involved yet. So Beat Lampers is D Dand, Haz, Volition, Grits (Party Hat), and 99, our DJ. I’m thirty so I’m a little older. 99 is my age, we both have a mutual friend John Vizzone who went by J Viz and he was the producer in Pyramids. We were all friends and Pyramids just turned it into Beat Lampers I guess. Antonio Gayle was the key piece who connected everybody.
Haz- I’m a little bit younger, but we all grew up in the same place. We were all making music, but D Dand, Volition, and 99 were making music separate from me and Grits. I was looking up to them for a minute and first met D Dand as a fan. First thing I ever said to this fool was, “Would you happen to be D Dand from the Pyramids?” He was like, “Yooo you heard that shit?” We all linked up and would just be chillin all the time making hip hop. Everyone was making beats and everyone was writing rhymes and that was pretty much how it went. The name Beat Lampers, if I remember correctly, was something Antonion Gayle came up with and we decided to run with it.
D Dand- Yeah, super creative guy. He wrote graffiti and made beats and raps, so he was hip hop as much as anybody else who was actually trying to seriously pursue it. He was joking a lot of the time but he was hip hop.
Haz- Antonio passed away suddenly in 2011, rest in peace. After a while, it basically turned into some shit that we are doing in his honor just out of love that we all have personally and together.
You’re about to drop a new album, so let the world know about that.
Haz- my first album came out in October of 2015 and it was called “Just advance”. It was fitting because I’ve always viewed him as a big homie so for him to lay down that platform for me to really get some shit off my chest really meant a lot. I was real proud of that album. It took me a minute to build up the energy and confidence to follow it up. When the pandemic rolled around me and D just rolled up in our cribs like “Well we aren’t doing nothing else, might as well start putting this together.” He would just send me hella beats, hundreds and hundreds of beats in my email and I would try to write a track everyday. I wrote like 30-40 songs for this album and recorded them on this shitty little mic I had on my laptop, and sent the demos over to D to talk about them. After a couple months of that we finally met up at his spot. He was living in Washington Heights at the time so I would drive out there from North Jersey and lay out a bunch of songs in a day. We would go on like that for a couple months until we had hella songs laid down, narrowed down the track list, and the shit is in the mixing process right now. We are working on a bunch of videos and I’m super proud of it. I feel like I have progressed as a song writer. I feel like D has progressed as a producer. I’m very hyped to share it with the world. It’s going to be called, “Otherwise Time Gon’ Tell” so look out for that.
I think skateboarding is like a brotherhood, if you skate, I skate, we skate, a lot like hip hop. What do you think it is about hip hop that makes those quick, solid connections with people?
D Dand- With hip hop, especially the type of hip hop we make, there is so much vulnerability and raw emotion and you connect with things that are not just surface level. It’s implied almost in the music, the tone, so when you can connect over that shit it’s a no brainer because it is so much more nuanced.
Haz- True, and it’s not always easiest to infiltrate that community. I feel like if you meet someone else and can tell they put their time and effort in to get to a point in that community where they can be respected, it’s like okay we been through the same kinda shit. Like a head nod kinda thing.
How important do you think it is to be well rounded in this craft?
Haz- It is very important. You get into the hardcore hip hop conversation of what it means to be an MC versus what it means to be just a rapper. An MC is basically someone who can handle any situation, that is how I feel about it. I care about this, at this point, I have spent most of my life doing this. I just want to get as good at it as I possibly can and cover all aspects of it. I feel that is highly important to me and the type of music I’m doing.
You guys keep it really true to the game with no flashy gear, over produced beats, and, well thought out lyrics real hip hop; the way it should be done. How did you develop your style, how do you manage to stay in your own lane nowadays, and stay true?
D Dand- I listen to a lot of old shit honestly. I try not keep up or get caught up in what is new. I listen to my own shit a lot so I’m constantly thinking on how I can get better instead of worrying about what someone else is doing. Sometimes I need to get inspired and its dope. I’ve been realizing I don’t need to look up to these famous people with these platforms, I have friends that are immensely talented. Whenever I need inspiration I just look to them.
Haz- What D said, I think getting inspired by your own circle really has a lot to do with that. If you are reaching outside of your life to get inspiration, it is going to take your shit in a whole different direction. That is one thing and I think another thing is being consistent. I have had this conversation with a whole lot of people and its just picking your lane and staying consistent in that lane while improving at the same time is always a going to pay off. It might take a minute but you gotta be patient with that shit and keep doing what you’re doing.
What other hip hop artist out there new or old influence y’all?
Haz- Man I got so many influences. I’m just going to speak to major shit that directly influenced my style. My first big influence was Black Star, that Mos Def and Talib Kweli album, some of the imagery on that, like the song Respiration, some of the imagery on that album really blew my mind at a young age. I was really fascinated by trying to create that same type of imagery in my own rhymes so that was real important to me. I got really into Guru or Phife Dawg and Q- Tip a little later down the line. For me that was okay less can be more sometime. You don’t necessarily need to pack a bar with the most syllables to make it hit the hardest. You can keep things simple and still have it be dope and come across clean and pack a punch. Most recently, rest in peace Sean Price yo again, just simply clever shit. That is the illest out.
D Dand- I agree. Sean Price is one of the best because the way he rapped was the way he was in person. That type of transparency is just dope to me. My influences were Black Star, Big L, Redman, a lot of the classic shit. Gang Starr, Black Moon, and more recently I would say Wiki. He’s been a pretty big influence to keep my sword sharp as far as rap.
Do you feel like hip hop is being well represented in this day and age?
D Dand- I don’t wanna sound like a hater, I think it is a yes and a no in a lot of ways.
Haz- Yea, I think there is ill shit coming out for sure. I think one of the dopest things in hip hop is that there has been a resurgence in people putting out vinyl records and that is super dope to me. That speaks to there being a lot of people that still care about keeping the scene going as it was originally. Also they are putting a modern twist to it. For example, DJ Muggs has a new album with a bunch of dope MC’s. I think that is really cool. I think there has been some cool cross over between old school legends and newer people who are trying to keep it going.
When you’re writing, how much of it is on paper or in your head?
D Dand- It used to be on paper back in the day especially in highschool when having notebooks and shit just filling them with rhymes. That was dope, it became a thing. You wanted to have a notebook, and then the iphone just made it so easy with all the freestyles.
Haz- For me it was so funny because I used to cary this backpack around when I would skateboard around and it had like a gallon ziplock bag in it with a bunch of folded up pieces of construction paper and they all had versus on them. It was like thirty versus in this bag that I would carry around. Gritz would come through to make songs and I would dump the bag and spread em out on the floor and try to pick one. Then like D said, the smartphones came around, I would write on my phone for a long time. I still do sometimes but recently I’ve been trying to fill books up again because I think it makes you a little more thoughtful of what you are doing.
Do you remember the first song that got you hooked on hip hop?
D Dand- It was probably 50 Cent “In Da Club” or some dumb shit, I was like thirteen and was super impressionable at that age. I don’t know…
Haz- The first rap song I really really like was “We fly high (Ballin’)” by Jim Jones. Then what got me into hip hop for hip hop sake, this is kind of funny too but it was “Kick Push” by Lupe Fiasco, or “Jesus Walks” by Kanye. I could spit both of those word for word at any time you want.
Rest in Peace Define aka Tone G.

================================================================================

Alright Drake, so where you from?
Columbus, Ohio.
How long you been in SF?
Like about two years, it’ll be three in November. Damn that’s crazy…
Word, what’s one thing in Columbus that you can’t get in California?
Grippos! You know what’s up with those?
Nah, what is it?
Literally the best chip ever, if anyone sees this send me some Grippos for real.
What about the other way around?
Hills. The fucking beach. Nature, like
good
nature, you know what I’m talking about? Like that good shit. But yeah, the hills.
Alright, Al told me to ask you about the racist shit you had to deal with back in Columbus. Did you get heat?
What the fuck Al!? Nah, I mean, people are weird and definitely racist out there, and now that Trump is president and he won in Ohio, people got super weird. Like really open with it. But I think honestly it was more like black people being low key racist towards white people and then me, because I was skateboarding. Like they’d be all, “oh you white boy,” this and that. I mean low key niggas didn’t use to fuck with me back in Ohio, cause basically I was mean. Haha!
Word, and what’s up with Chaz McGee?
Oh, that dude is the sickest. Chaz McGee is tight, straight up flies over vans and shit out of this bowl at this shitty ass skatepark called Dodge. That dude’s tight.
How much would it take to shave yr head?
Nah. You’d have to give me a dumbass amount of money man. I love that shit, gotta let it do what it do.
Are you a fun guy?
Uh, with mushrooms? Yeah I’m a fun guy like that for sure.
Daily?
If I got em definitely, I’ll do em daily. Just a little bit at a time, or I’ll wait a couple of days and then just go all out. Yeah that shit’s tight.
Does it help with yr skating?
Yes, definitely. It’s not even that it helps with the skating, I guess it’s just that there are no mental blocks. I mean, on mushrooms you think a whole lot and kinda get in your head, but when it comes to skating I don’t think of, “oh I could get sacked,” or “I could do this,” or whatever. It’s just like, “oh I’m about to do this,” or some shit like that.
So someone just beat the world record fr highest ollie at 45″. You got that?
If I stretch.
What about highest fakie ollie, think you got it?
Man I don’t know…niggas can do some crazy shit! But if I stretch…
And eat a little mushrooms?
Yes, for sure a little.
I believe in you. So you just got back from Miami with Quasi, how was that trip?
Dude, that shit was so fun. Went to the best bump to bar I’ve ever skated in my life, and literally had the best crew ever. Those dudes are the sickest, however Chad put that team together. He did a good job.
And who was MVP?
I mean with most tricks done, probably Dane Barker.  He’s fucking good. I feel like he got a clip every day, and they’re all good clips. But, Jake. Cause you already know he did some magic shit!
Of course, so what’s yr average day look like out here?
Fuck, my average day? It’s not too sick, I wake up, make or go get some aÃ§aÃ­, if I got mushrooms eat those with the aÃ§aÃ­, go to Soma, meet up with people, and if ain’t nobody trying to skate just go bomb some hills or just go eat a bunch of food.
So when’d you get the Quasi Q tattooed?
Haha! Oh don’t even…I don’t know, I been with those dudes for about two years, so maybe like a year ago? Like barely on, I just got it cause it literally looks cool and I love those dudes.
So what’s next fr you in life, you gonna stay out here?
Yeah, probably gonna stay out here for awhile. Definitely want to do a lot of traveling and shit like that. I’ve never left the States, so really want to get out and just do cool shit with my friends and my family. I just try to do more skateboarding. More, better, whatever…
Anyone you wanna shout out?
Fuckin…I mean obviously Quasi, all the DLX homies and all the FTC homies. My niggas over at Sidewalk Juice, cause that shit good. Mushrooms. All my niggas back in Ohio and Chris cause he’s still out there. Shit, I guess you? And my parents! Y’all killed it mom and dad! Thanks for this life, I love you!
Haha nice. Anything else you need the world to know?
I might not be the best at it, but just go be nice to people. Just go be nice to everybody, even if you don’t like them.
That’s what the world needs?
Basically. If everyone was nice it’d be sick!

================================================================================

How did you first get into skating?
Believe or not, Gleaming the Cube. My brother who skated a little bit took me to see it at the dollar theatre. I was hooked. Keep in mind this is like ’89 or something and I’m like five years old.
What was it like growing up as a black skater in Texas?
Probably the same as growing up a black skater anywhere… rough, confusing, frustrating….I’m actually a little jealous of black kids skating today. They got it way easier than heads my age had it. You got Lil Wayne skating now, and TK had a show on BET!!!
Top 5 skaters from Texas?
You know, there are a lot of amazing skaters from TX. I guess I’ll just mention my personal favorites: Guru, Nate Broussard, Bryan Botelho, Richard Angelides, Mike Crum, and don’t forget John Comer, he’s got one leg! And I’ve seen him do tre flips! Ridiculous! Kalis isn’t really from TX but he’ll always be a Dallas skater to me, one of the best.
How is the East Coast different from Dallas/Texas and how is it similar?
Well for one, we can’t really skate in the summer here, and y’all cant really skate in the winter there. Ain’t that some shit. But for real though, as far as skateboarding is concerned, we have a lot in common. Heads are grounded and have a lot of heart.
Switch back 5-0 or switch crook?
Sw crook is definitely my go to, but sw 5-0 gets the props.
Best ledges you’ve ever skated?
That’s hard to say. I’ve skated a lot of ledges in my day. I’ll say this much: I’m sure they were granite/marble. The ground was buttaz, They were in downtown. There were bums, derelicts, and hoods in the way. They probably reaked of a weird concoction of urine, chicken wings, and liquor. Security was probably constantly rolling up. Half the kids down at the skatepark either couldn’t skate them, or just didn’t want to. And the way things are going in skateboarding today, ledges like these will continue to be less and less appreciated, if they even manage to remain in existence. I’ll stop ranting now.
How did you end up having a part in Logic 11? Did you go out and film for the video or did your footage just end up in it?
Ah, a little bit of both. I knew Heath Brinkley through Mikey Taylor and all the City Stars kids. One way or another word got to him that it would be a good look to get me a part. So I guess I sent him some footage I already had, and that got the O.K. Then I filmed some more stuff to finish it off. I never imagined the part would get the response it did, and still be remembered now.
Who were the first skateboarders that you looked up to?
At first, Ray Barbee. I saw him on sk8 tv. I was like, “Look dad, brothas can skate too!” Then as the 90s came around and I started really getting into magazines and videos it was the same thing, Kareem, Keenan, Marcus and Lavar, Lil Stevie..ha, remember that, when he was just Lil Stevie. I remember how psyched we were when he was in that Thrasher with all the young skaters. On the cover, Thrasher was written in crayons. I don’t even remember who else was in that issue. I just remember seeing Lil Stevie doing a heel flip down the stairs at city hall, and thinking: Whoa, he’s black and young. Mind you, I’m like in 4th grade or something at this point. Going back to what we spoke on earlier, it was always a struggle back then (being a black skater) so seeing any brothas out there doing it was a huge source of motivation.
Have you ever skated Love Park?
Yes, right at the end. Back in like ’01 and ’02. I was on Ezekiel and would come to Philly to skate with Kerry Getz and Pete Eldridge. It was cool too, because I saw Josh for the first time since he left Dallas, which was when I was like 11 or twelve, and he still remembered me and everything. He was like why you hanging out with Kerry and them, come kick it with us. I guess he had beef with Dridge back then or something.
Who is your favorite Wu Tang member?
Tony Starks aka Ironman aka Pretty Tony aka Theodore aka The….Ghost……Face….Killaaaaaaahhhhhhhhh!
How long did it take you to nollie back noseblunt the ledge to drop at MACBA? Did you eat shit at all?
It didn’t really take that long actually. I did it in one session which is more than I can say for some of the clips I’m trying to get these days when I have to come back like 3 times over the span of month before finally getting it.
Jeremy Holmes’ part from Logic #11 2002

================================================================================

How long have you been around skateboarding culture?
I’ve been into skateboarding since it was first really put in front of me around age 15, street skating was getting better, and Welcome to Hell was the best video ever. My brother actually skated first, and I used to try and do tricks inside on the carpet, ollies, kickflips, then I started skating with them, and I’ve been into the skate scene ever since.
You’ve always been into art, when did you make the transition to tattooing?
I’ve been into tattoos my whole life, I was in the chair getting a tattoo on my 18th birthday. Funny thing is, the first tattooist I had any contact with was Bonnie, and she was a sweetheart, but she knew I was into art. I drew all the tattoos I was having her put on me, so she would have me stencil the tattoos myself. She also had me draw me things up for her for other clients if I was in the shop, so it was almost a foreshadowing of what was to come. But it was ten years later when I would actually pick up a machine and do a real tattoo (which is on my brother), and after seeing a lot of artists first tattoos, I can live with mine.
You’ve done quite a few skate tattoos. Do you tattoo a lot of skateboarders?
I’ve definitely done a lot of skate tattoos, my brother-in-law has like a sticker leg with all the old logos and brands that he thought was cool as we were growing up. As far as tattooing skateboarders, probably just local skaters from the Bath skate park have come in and got inked. I would be stoked though to tattoo a pro, like Cardiel, but there is a lot of time left. Who knows who I’ll end up tattooing?
If someone’s in Maine and wants to reach you, how can they?
Facebook has made it easy to get in contact with me, just look up Justin Graves or Justin Storer, they’ll both work. You can call the shop, I am there 6 days a week, 207-279-8282, or you can stop by it  right off the main strip 14 Thomas Point Rd, Brunswick, Maine. I look forward to inking anyone who sees this. If they do, I’ll hook them up.

================================================================================

Interview by Sean Bendon
Video by Sean Bendon
It’s been over a year since I first met Rob and started talking to him about his long and interesting past in skateboarding. It never occurred to me that it would take so much time to make this thing happen but now that it’s all finished I can’t help but feel like there’s still so many things to be said.
Rob has had an impact on your skate life whether you really know it or not. There’s so many things we didn’t get to talk about in this piece and a bunch of his work we never even touched on.
Just a few things to give you an idea:
He made the original ENJOI umbrella logo.
He ran a few wheel companies back in the 1990s, including The Wheelie Company and Landspeed wheels.
Here’s a few skaters that rode for The Wheelie Company: Pat Smith, Brian Seber, Chris Weichert, Donny Barley, Jason Skupackus (rip), Kenny Hughes, Chad Kramer, Mike Maldonado, Jimmy Chung, Kevin Taylor, Brian Gaberman, Bam Margera, Ryan Wilburn, Kerry Getz, John Montesi, Brian Gaberman, Sam Hitz, Brian Howard
He was behind the making of the first CKY video which came out for Landspeed Wheels and played a part in kick starting the career of Bam Margera, along with many other east coast legends.
He and friends built the Autumn bowl in Greenpoint back in the early 2000s.
He moved in with Coan Buddy Nichols and Rick Charnoski, who went on to create Sixstair studios and produce one of the best shows in skating “Loveletters to Skateboarding” with Jeff Grosso.
He did the art direction for Fruit Of The Vine – Buddy and Rick’s first film while roommates with them.
You’re more than a skate photographer but for the purpose of this interview we’re gonna focus on that. When did you first pick up a camera and what got you into Photography?
Seeing pictures got me interested in it. Skate mags, BMX mags, music mags, all that stuff. My grandmother shot lots of pictures and she had cameras around. She gave me a camera for my birthday, a little 110 point & shoot. When I was older, I got a 35mm camera and took it on a skate trip. My really close friends shot photos and were way more serious and could develop their own film, actually compose skate shots. That got me into it. Then I got into art school and got wide-angle lenses.
How was going to college for photography and printmaking?
They go hand in hand. I mean, there’s a side of printmaking that is not photo-based but I was very interested in the more graphic, mechanical, photo-based screen printing. And the darkroom was right next to the print shop. I could start using the camera more like a tool, versus, a specific art making device. It was like, “oh I need this image to incorporate it into a print I’m working on.” Instead of appropriating an image, I could create one from scratch. And then, manipulate it either in the darkroom or in the print shop, on a computer, bring it all together and make something with it, whether for personal work or a commercial project like a poster or a skateboard graphic.
You got a job at Tum Yeto from O (Otis Barthoulameu) and ended up moving out to
California. I know that some of the skate graphics you made were from photos that you
had shot, specifically the Donny Barley board you showed me with the photo from
Nebraska. Can you briefly explain how working for Tum Yeto was and how you
incorporated your photography into the job you did there?
Working for Tum Yeto was incredible. It was like a dream come true. Getting a phone call from somebody like O was… First, I thought someone was pranking me. The more we talked, the more I realized it was the real deal. At the time there weren’t a lot of graphic designers that understood the printmaking process and how art was transferred onto a board because boards were silk-screened. They still are, but there is a more indirect process now with heat transfers. The artwork was color separated and printed one color at a time. It’s really difficult when a graphic or an idea comes in as a composite with many colors and gradients and is literally a two-dimensional object, which then has to be taken apart, color separated, and printed while keeping all the integrity of the original piece intact. There’s stuff that just gets lost in translation. I already had a lot of silk-screening experience from school and they saw it and they were like, “hey, we like what you’re doing and you know how to get it done.”
Who were some of your photo influences  at the time and who were some of your
photo peers at the time?
Around that time, influences and peers would be like… hand in hand, as far as skateboarding goes. O (Otis Barthoulameu) 100%. When we connected, he was still shooting photos, but in a much more laidback way. He wasn’t objectively going out and doing it for work. He had become much more immersed in music. But that didn’t keep him from shooting photos. He was probably the biggest influence. Same with Tod Swank. Even though at that time Tod was not shooting photos for a living, he was running a business. But his photography was just bar none. It really, really had an impact. He had a good eye for the person, the trick, the spot. The technical aspects, the exposures, everything about it. It felt like you could just reach into the picture. Tobin Yelland was huge, Lance Dawes. Those guys, they really capture an image that translates everything but it also has this deeper feeling or a mood. They could shoot a very polished photo and then also just go out and document raw stuff. Slice of life. That was important. And music photographers too, there’s a lot. There is a book called
Banned in DC
by Cynthia Connolly that had a huge impact on me. The book is just really straightforward, black and white, just capturing the bands and people unfiltered. It wasn’t really the camera doing all the work, it was the subjects.
Back in the 90s, you ran a couple of different wheel brands, when you were doing the ads, were you shooting, developing, doing layout? What was your involvement in that process?
A lot of the time it would be another photographer, but there would be times I would find myself using photos I shot too. And that would usually be because there wasn’t anything else I could get in time to meet a deadline. It wasn’t every time but my photos would find their way into the mix. I was pretty critical about it. If it had something to do with a team rider or someone that was going to be in the ad, I definitely wanted them to feel good about it. When I was running Wheelie Co. it was on a shoestring budget. And sometimes those ads would just be made with whatever was sitting on the desk. Sometimes it wouldn’t even be a skate photo.
Do you remember getting your first skate photo published?
Yeah, it was in a German magazine. It was a photo of Donny Barley ollie up to fs pivot on a wall.
Was there a period in your life where you felt like you were at the peak of your
productivity as a photographer? Where you were always shooting, hanging out, always
had the camera?
There was a time where the camera was always around but I never felt like I was at any sort of level of comfort. Cause it was always either gear changing or demands were. There’s just a bullet list of things and the list is always changing and reordering. You are always on your toes. And if you’re in a city like New York, the place changes by the minute and there’s always something. There’s just new faces, new people, new environments, new things, new dynamics. Then you compound it with technology and all kinds of other stuff, your age, your energy, and your willingness to go at it by all means necessary. Yeah, you’re never comfortable and you shouldn’t be. If you’re in a creative place and you’re comfortable, you’re not in a creative place. The two do not coexist, because creativity exists in the margins. Out there, it’s not comfortable. If you’re thinking about something creative, it’s something that is pushing the envelope. Otherwise, it’s just status quo.
Can you tell me about SPUNK mag?
Spunk was a skate zine. First, it was done by my friend Jim Tesnar in the early 80s. Jim was the first person that really had an impact on me in skateboarding. He used to skate this ramp at my friends across the street from my house and I’d go over there after school and skate with them. I was little and they were like college kids. The zine was the first kind of homemade thing I ever got in skating. Spunk became a mail order skate shop, then an actual shop, and then it was a skatepark in the 90’s, and then he made boards. All run by Jim. He still works in the industry. At one point he was like,”let’s make a zine just for fun.” I was down to help. The more we talked about it, we figured it would reach everybody if we just made it online. I knew how to build web stuff out and design it and make it work. We made it a full screen presentation which at the time was not being done. It was in a linear format and paged through from start to finish. It wasn’t like a conventional website with a bunch of options to navigate. It was just pictures and articles that we thought were interesting. There would be totally unknown ams and then a legend like Scott Foss who was pro in the late 70’s early 80’s. It was really fun. Looking back on it there’s a lot of people in those issues that have gone on to do things that were unknown at the time. We did interviews with Nora Vasconcellos and Samarria Brevard before they were known. There was a cover of Jimmy Wilkins when few knew who he was, doing a huge frontside ollie. There was stuff coming in from photographers who were being very generous that were just happy to contribute that weren’t very established photographers and we were giving them a platform to show their work. But then it just got to a point where it was taking a lot of time and there were other things happening in my life that required a lot of attention, work-wise, life-wise, etc. It became hard to find time to do it to the level we wanted
.
Did you have photos in Spunk as well? Were you shooting at that point or were you
more in an editorial position
?
I was contributing photos, but I felt a little weird putting a lot of photos in there. I had plenty to show. But I wanted to just keep more of an equal opportunity. I wanted it to look like, hey, this is a thing we are making for skateboarding. And, you know, there’s a lot of people out there doing stuff and we want to put the stuff we like down the pipes for people to see that we think is good. So many people were being cool sending us photos and interviews to use for free, you know? That takes precedence.
Are you glad you took all these photos now?
Big time. I found something yesterday and I was like “fuck, why didn’t I ever print that frame?” And here I am seeing it now. I just wish I looked at the contact sheet a little closer. But you can look at it, memorize 36 frames and take all the inventory in it, but ten years down the road it’s gonna change. And there’s a photo in there that will mean something completely different in the present than it did then. You know, the money shot is now kinda like, eh, whatever. And then there’s this other one that transcends time. If I went through today and audited everything I shot, and then did it again five years later, I’d have two different results.
Do you remember the last skate photo you shot?
Yes, it was Kevin Maillet doing an ollie over a bar in the neighborhood. Kev rules.
What role does photography play in your life now?
It’s a tool. I use it to catalog my work. I still take pictures of stuff. But I’m not out there always looking and taking pictures of everything I see. I had a hard drive meltdown on me several years ago, and it just pivoted me in a completely different direction. I put all my life and creative energy into a hard drive just to have it die and work lost. There were two books I was working on that are gone – up in thin air. I sent the hard drive to the gnarliest forensic tech place. One of the highest-level tech recovery programs at RIT in Rochester. “We can’t get anything off this thing. It’s toast.” I was transferring all the files off of it when it died, and I lost it. That’s where I was like, I’m just gonna paint now.
What advice would give to someone trying to break into photography?
A photographer asked me that question and I said, “get a day job…” and they got mad. Supplemental income so that you can make your work. You don’t break in. You don’t break into anything. You find your
way. And when you’re finding your way, you’re doing whatever you can to pay for your day shit and your life. The ability to sustain yourself when your art ain’t paying the bills.
What advice do you wish someone had given you earlier on for photography or
maybe just in general?
I never got advice for photography because I didn’t seek it in terms of career. I knew the drill. And the drill was send it in and keep shooting. It goes back to patience. Be patient and have other things to carry you through it. Be creative about it and don’t say no. The best advice I got about life and surviving in a creative field was during a time when shit hit the fan. A very good friend of mine, Adam Wallacavage, was like, “right now, I’m just not saying no to anything, and I’m doing whatever I can.” He shoots for fun, it might get published, and he’s happy. But there’s other things occupying his life that are creative and have rewarding results. Don’t say no and do whatever you can to maintain the direction you want to go in and be passionate about it. Be dedicated to it.
Any shout outs?
Zillion. Off the top of my head, thanks Mom, thanks Jim Tesnar day one forward, Spunk was the funnest skatepark scene with the best atmosphere 100% start to finish. Thanks for that phone call Otis B – you are still here on so many levels, especially on all the rad records you made. Thanks Tod Swank, Pete Thompson, Dan Wolfe, Adam Wallacavage, Kelly Ryan, Brian Emig, Doug Thompson, Dane Wilson, Brian Gaberman, Rhino, Randy Janson, Marc Johnson, Greg Witt, Andy Jenkins, Kevin Wilkins, Bobby Puleo,
Slap Magazine
,
Thrasher Magazine
, Ryan Henry, Jaime Owens. All the skateboarders and musicians and bands that stoke the fire, inspiring photographers, people who push the envelope, Al and Andy Duvall, Marcus Durant, Steve Albini for showing us what DIY means, Mark Hubbard for showing us what DIY means. Buddy Nichols. Thanks to Rick Charnoski and Evan Becker for giving me a place to live when I moved to the city from California with a camera, skateboard, bicycle, and 90 bucks to my name.

================================================================================

Do you believe in Astrology?
I believe that the planets definitely have an influence on us. I’m not exactly sure what that influence is. Take the moon for example. Depending on a full moon it affects the ways the tides move, and if it affects the water outside of us then it has to affect the water inside of us. I’m not sure to what extent but I do believe that the planets influence us in some way.
What would you say if you met an alien?
I don’t think I’d say anything. I think I would just focus on my breathing. It’s hard to say man, I’m looking at an alien necklace that I have in my car right now. If I met an alien I don’t think I’d say anything because if you’re an alien I’d expect you to be able to read my mind. They’d know if I come in peace or not.
What would you be saying in your mind to the alien?
I’d say, “Are we good?” First and foremost you know? There’s probably aliens out there that aren’t too friendly. Got to check that one off the box first.
Do you think that humans have any type of psychic abilities like that?
Oh for sure. I really think that there are human beings out there who have psychic capabilites, but I think there are humans out there who fake that they have psychic abilities. I’d say it’s more common to find fakers than it is to find people who are actually the real deal. You can’t fake the funk on that shit though. Eventually people can see right through you.
Do you think there’s aliens among us?
100%.
What are they? Are the humans or are you implying that they’re sea anemones or something like that?
I’d say there’s aliens who look like human beings. I think there’s too many encounters to completely discount the fact that aliens haven’t been here or aren’t currently here. The Canadian Minister of Defense is a great example. For anybody who doesn’t know who that is, you should do research. He claims he’s met some of these extraterrestrial beings. I think the universe is too vast to think that aliens don’t exist and have not existed here on this planet.
What’s the smartest creature on earth?
I’ll tell you who it’s not, it’s not humans. We just keep fucking our planet up. We’re like a little kid playing with a matchbox, eventually we will light ourselves on fire. I’d say the smartest creature is called a tardigrade. They’re microscopic creatures that can go into fire and survive and they can go into ice and survive. You can send them to extreme temperatures and put them under extreme pressure and they won’t die. There’s some tardigrades that are 300 years old. I’ll have to check the facts on that one.
Do you think they’re thinking or have intelligence?
I’m not sure, but they’re fascinating creatures. Damn, it looks like the ice cream man just pulled up right next to my car.
Do you eat ice cream?
No I don’t. Not anymore. Aside from a tardigrade, there are so many creatures on this planet that are intelligent, but at the end of the day none of them have the thinking capabilities that human beings do. Even though human beings are slowly destroying themselves, I’d say we are essentially the smartest creatures on the planet who do have the capability to evolve and lift up the people around them. Yet we choose to be ignorant.
Would you want to live forever?
I don’t think I’d want to live forever. I think my time on this planet, however long I’m here, is exactly how long I’m supposed to be here. When the day comes when I’m supposed to leave then I’ll happily go.
Do you think there’s an afterlife?
This is going to sound pretty far out, but I’m a firm believer that the bodies we inhabit now are very temporary and they’re not truly who we are. What we truly are is way bigger than what we could ever imagine. We are essentially the entire universe in a human body. Someone once told me you’re the entire universe having a human experience, not a human having a universal experience, or something like that. So an afterlife? I don’t know. I have no recollection of an afterlife but I think we’re more than just these bodies, these shells. That’s my own personal belief.
Do you think time travel is possible?
I love that you guys are asking me these questions. Do I think time travel is real or possible? Yeah I’d say to varying degrees. Again, I’m no scientist so I don’t know the facts, but I do know a little bit about the Theory of Relativity and depending on the spot in the universe where you are, time is either sped up or slowed down. I guess if you go to another part of the universe where it’s slower, and then you come back, essentially you’ve travelled farther through time. The best example I can give is that movie Interstellar. It’s not the most scientifically realistic movie, but it puts the Theory of Relativity into play.
Why do bad things happen to good people?
Karma. It’s not bad or good, karma just is. I think everybody, regardless of if you are a bad or good person, needs challenging things to happen in life so that you can move forward and grow. I tread lightly because sometimes really bad things happen to people, and essentially there no rhyme or reason why. My own personal belief why something bad happens is in my life is that there must be a reason that it’s happening. Hopefully I learn a lesson in this moment and can grow from it. I like to see supposedly negative things having potentially positive outcomes
Do you think all the technology that’s coming up recently poses any threat to humanity? Do you think robots could take over the world?
I think there’s a high probability that technology can get out of control. I’m not too worried about robots because essentially if they’re as advanced and intelligent as people say they’re going to be then they will, in my opinion, have some sort of a level of compassion.I feel that’s one of the highest virtues. If they are advanced, they must come equipped with these virtues. Otherwise they’re not that advanced to me.
Woah.
I’d say one of the technologies that we should be conscious of and skeptical of and be informed about is 5G technology. It could be a potentially dangerous technology to have in our culture, and it’s being implemented on a federal level very quickly. 5G is pretty scary. There was a 5G test done in London across the street from this park, and at the same time they were doing the test 150 birds just dropped dead from the trees. No reason. So while 5G is an advanced technology that’ll make processing speeds much higher, but at what cost? It’ll penetrate through walls, it can penetrate through water, and if it can penetrate through those than it can penetrate our bodies, and maybe the water inside of us. It comes back to the planets affecting our insides. But now there’s a man-made technology that could be very harmful. 5G was developed in Israel, but they don’t use 5G in Israel. If one of the most technologically advanced places in the world doesn’t use it then what does that say? Everyone who’s reading this should look into 5G technology and get informed about how it affects them and their communities. Once you get informed figure out what we can do to protect ourselves.
Are we already in the Matrix?
I mean, if you break it down perhaps we are, perhaps this all just a dream. I have a belief that I’ll share only because you asked. If you’ve ever had a lucid dream before your five senses are fully present. Your taste, touch, sound, sight, and hearing are all present in a lucid dream. So how do you perceive reality? By your five senses. So say that in this plane of reality if you didn’t have your five senses, and we’ll throw in the sixth sense of intuition in there, how would you perceive reality? Would you be able to even exist without your six senses? The obvious question is no, so what’s to say that this plane of reality is anymore real than that plane of reality that’s in your dreams? You’re just more conscious in this one. And who’s to say that there isn’t an even higher plane of reality that you can be even more conscious in?
Would you eat a chicken to save a cow?
What? That’s kinda a crazy question because now I have to ask what the circumstances are. Why is this cow going to die if I don’t eat the chicken? Who’s making these rules?
Could happen…
That’s a hard question to answer. I’m gonna say I’m having a hard time coming up with an answer. It’s all circumstantial. If me eating this chicken would reduce a greater amount of suffering than me eating this chicken, then yes.
Do you think music can heal illness?
I think it depends on the illness, and I think yes. I’d say vibration is a very powerful healing tool, and couple that with the power of your mind and you can certainly heal a great amount of suffering in your body and disease through sound vibration and music.
If a tree falls, and nobody’s around…
That’s the question?
I think you know the rest of the question.
That’s a beautiful question. I’m gonna say yes.
Alright, yeah. Do you think trees have feelings? Are they the ones who hear it?
My question for you is how do you define no one? What’s your definition of no one?
Nothing with ears.
Nothing with ears? Well then is it possible to hear something through feeling? If the answer to that is yes then I’d say trees can probably feel and essentially hear, and hear a tree falling.
I think we just answered that question. We might be the first.
We’re getting deeply philosophical here. I love it.
Do you have any last words for the people?
Just treat each other as you would want to be treated.

================================================================================

Where are you from?
I’m from Connecticut originally. Grew up skating in parking lots and a local high school with some fun ledges and started taking the train into NYC.
When/where did you learn to
kickflip?
Not sure on my exact age but I’m going to guess around 10 or 12? It probably took me a year of trying in my friend’s garage or in my mom’s basement. I think at first we thought you did kickflips by putting your foot under the board and doing an underflip like Rodney Mullen or something.
How badly do you need glasses?
Let’s just say I’m not blind but I definitely need them to focus a camera or to drive properly. I’ve broken a lot of pairs skating and had to finally resort to using the age old dad-miracle of crocks. I can skate okay without them for the most part though.
What is the most important thing to know when shooting skating?
I suppose timing is everything. Not shooting a photo with a total dad angle or high school newspaper photo journalist approach. But in the age of irony, maybe that stuff would fly these days.
Have you ever been arrested before?
Yeah I’ve had a few similar arrest stories, running from cops and getting tackled. Both times I wasn’t even skating, just holding my board and got rushed by cops thinking I was skating. Arrested in Philly after getting rushed by cops at city hall, literally walking through the park with my board. Charged with vandalism of city property. That kept me away from Philly for a long time. They gave me a fine and 30 hours of community service that I was able in New York. At the time Billy Rohan was running the whole 12th and A community skatepark scheme and signed off on my hours if I helped build some ramps, etc. with those guys.
How important is a flash?
Flash has played a pretty important role in skate photography over the years. It is a great tool for stopping action or lighting a scene, but not always necessary. It kind of led to everybody’s photos looking the same for a while. Digital technology is so good these days, you can get away with shooting natural light a lot easier. Cameras are way better at dealing with low light situations now, so the flash doesn’t have to be a crutch.
Has a skater ever broken any of your equipment?
Plenty of broken flashes over the years. Couple boards to the fisheye, but no major damage. Worst part is when your gear gets broken before you get a good photo or gear breaking on a trip.
Last time you got high?
Last night.
How much coffee do you drink?
A lot. My bladder hurts.
Do you sell coffee? How’d you get into roasting?
I don’t sell it, sometimes I give it to friends if I roasted a bunch. I was just drinking a lot of coffee and reading up on it. Unroasted coffee can be purchased at a fraction of the cost of a fancy cafe’s roasted beans. I figured I would order some and try out some DIY methods on the stove top and save some bucks in the mean time. It just spiraled from there and now. I’m pretty obsessed with it. It’s something fun to do after work, like cooking a nice meal. It’s awesome having a stash of beans from all over the world and fresh roasted coffee whenever you want. I’d love to be able to do it on a bigger scale in the future.
Ever been to Puerto Rico?
Yeah on a couple skate trips down there. Some really fun, hectic trips eating way too much mofongo and chicken and cooling off with plenty of Medallas. We took a little trip to El Yungue National Park and were pretty amazed at the swimming holes and beauty of the place.
How many
different cameras have you had in your life?
Too many over the years. I have a bit of an obsessive trait and was always on to something new, trading one for another.
Dream camera/camera toy?
Digital Contax t3 would be a fun one.
Do you surf? Do you think it affects your skate style?
Yeah I got really into surfing about five or six years ago. My dad surfed when he was a kid, so growing up we always had a board around but we never lived close enough to the beach for it to really stick. Something switched and now it’s taken over my life. Like learning how to skate all over again. I’m not sure if it has affected my skating besides the fact that I skate way less now, unless of course there’s no waves. Surf style is cool, smooth and cruiser. Skate like Joel Tudor and you’re good.
Worst skate injury?
Torn urethra on a trip to Montreal while I was being paid to be the photographer. Freak accident trying a dumb trick while everyone was warming up. Not the best look when the photographer is in the hospital pissing blood and the kids are out ripping.
What was the last album you played through?
Lee Hazlewood, “Trouble is a Lonesome Town.”
Last words?
Listen to your mom.

================================================================================

Interview by Colton Webster
Shawn Connolly, and his wife Thuy Nguyen, provided endless inspiration, guidance, and wisdom on what it meant to work with kids in the city when I ran after school skate programming in San Francisco. They were always so welcoming, open, and honest in their advice and I will be forever grateful. They began running clubs around 2006 and since then, SF Skate Club has become a staple of their community, with fundraisers, summer camps, and a welcoming shop space for the kids to come hang year round on Divisadero st. Shawn has been through so much over the last few years, it is beyond admirable to see him carry on and continue to inspire. Colton Webster caught up with Shawn for a quick chat about using art as therapy, living and skating with Parkinsons disease, and more. I (heart) SF Skate Club. – Larry Davis
How’ve you been lately?
I’ve been good, just finished nine weeks of summer skate camp. No injuries for myself or the kids so that’s always good. This was actually my 16th summer doing it. Someone tried to break into the Skate Club van, and somebody stole my car, but no physical injuries, just some hurt feelings.
Wait, someone stole your car?
Yeah it was gone for three weeks, it’s all good, it just made it so I didn’t have to work around the street cleaning schedule. But I got it back. It was all intact so that was good. Honestly I don’t know how they got into it. It was crazy.
Glad to hear it, you said no injuries, so you’ve been skating with the kids right?
Yeah I’ve been easing back into it pretty slowly. I had brain surgery on March 23rd so the skating I’ve been doing is pretty much stuff I know I’m not gonna eat shit on. I kind of push it where I can but I’m not trying to make a situation worse right now. I feel like we’re all in that position, trying to see what we can get away with, you know? That aspect hasn’t changed at all.
So mostly just curbs and flat, keeping it small?
Exactly! Actually I’ve been enjoying skating at skateparks because the skatepark does all the work for you. You just drop in and pump.
What parks are you skating?
I’ve been going up to Hilltop and a little bit of Treasure Island. They’ve done a really great job out there.
When did the Parkinson’s get to the point where it affected your skating?
On my 42nd birthday I did 42 tricks on flat and that was when I kind of got the feeling it was closing in on me. I had to start saying goodbye to some stuff. Some of the stuff that I’d always had was a lot more work than I remembered, but not for any real reason. Physically I was fine but my timing was off, like an inner balance thing. That’s probably the most frustrating part about having this. In my mind I can see one hundred percent clear how to do every trick, but I just can’t do it physically you know?
Did you use painting as an outlet for when you weren’t able to skate at the level you were at before?
Well I never really painted until shortly after my wife’s passing, I think that’s really when I started to paint using canvases. I used to write a lot and used to not really understand what Instagram was for. I used to make these posts that were really long, and I’d edit the thing to make sure it was perfect. I totally lost my ability to express myself through writing around that time. I just gravitated towards the artwork because depending on my movement at the time, I could kind of make it work for me either way. I utilized dyskinesia, which is when you have too much motion that you can’t control it. I would channel that motion to work for me even though my shit would be kind of messy. I go from extremes: too much movement to not enough. It’s very frustrating, but if I wasn’t moving enough I could hone in on details, and when I was what I call, “ape shit” I could paint with more broad movements. My work definitely fluctuates between detailed to super splashy. Sometimes it’ll happen when I work on a single piece, I might go through all those stages.
Do you have a piece in mind that’s an example of that?
I did a picture of Muhammad Ali. One of my coworkers gave me this really big canvas, and I was like, fuck I’ve gotta make something good. I had to make something motivating for me to put on my wall. I was definitely going through a tough time and it took me five days.
Any exhibits coming up?
Yeah I have an art show in November at Lowkey Skateshop so I’m excited about that. It’s gonna be all Tenderloin influenced because I lived on Geary and Hyde for 10 years. That’s more my neighborhood than anywhere. Might do something like a cracked out Sesame Street or something, not sure yet. The shop’s really small so I’m gonna challenge myself to cover all their walls. I think I can do it.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller
How are you feeling today Neil?
So far so good. Just woke up, listened to “Cop Killer”, and came here to meet up and drink coffee.
How do you feel about the Whole Foods on Bedford being closed today?
It’s fried because they’re always trying to be open and making money, so the fact that they’re turning everyone away is pretty weird.
Congrats on getting a pro board for 5Boro. How does it feel?
Not a whole lot has changed except that people are giving me props. I’m stoked on it. I do see kids riding my board which is pretty sick. I saw a kid at McCarren the other day that had my board and random people online will buy it and be like “Dude this is sick!” That gets me stoked.
You just put out a really sick part in Zach Sayles’s video
Vanish.
What was it like filming for that?
Thanks man. It took a long time, he’d been working on that since 2014 or 2015. It took about four years or something like that. Some of my footage in there is from 2015. Everybody else probably filmed for about two and a half years. I was skating with Zach a little before he moved to Philly and started filming with the rest of those dudes. I would go to the city all the time and we’d film because I was living in West Chester. Eventually I moved up here [New York] and I’d go back to Philly to film with him trying to finish it up. I’m stoked on the way he put it together man, he did a great job. It was a quality production.
Are you from West Chester?
Kind of. I’m from Malvern which is about 10 minutes away from West Chester. I grew up going to Fairman’s, that’s my shop, so I spent a lot of time in West Chester skating. Besides Philly, that’s where everyone I skated with lived so that’s where I’d end up most of the time.
What was it like for you growing up and skating Philly?
It was different then. I want to say, it was 2007 the first time I went downtown. It used to be the classic go to Love, go to 3 Block, go to Temple. Definitely skated City Hall a lot before they took it out too.
If you could bring back one Philly spot from the grave which would it be?
That’s a good question. There’s a lot of good shit that’s not there anymore. There’s one spot that wasn’t in the city but it was close that people would skate a lot, Blue Bar in Delco. It was a blue out rail that you’ll see a lot of old clips at. That spot’s been gone for a while. I definitely don’t miss 3 Block. There’s a lot of stuff that’s still there but you can’t skate it anymore. I mean, Love Park, but everyone’s gonna say that. I never got to skate this spot, but there used to be this bank to bank channel gap at UPenn that people used to skate in the ‘90s that looked super fun. And Afro Banks, for sure.
Did you ever see anything gnarly out in the streets there?
Yeah for sure. Philly is wild. All the dudes who smoke k2 and hang out at Muni, that shit’s pretty crazy on a daily basis. I feel like up here that hasn’t really caught on yet. It’s a daily experience if you’re down there. You’ll see crazy shit every day. I know there’s a couple stories I can’t think of right now, but I’ve been skating Philly for a long time and have seen a lot of shit. There’s a lot of crazy fuckers over there.
When did you move to New York?
I used to come up here all the time to skate with Tombo and the 5Boro crew. 2011 was the first time I came here and I was filming with Cooper Winterson. He made a video that came out in 2013, and after that I kept coming back to skate and film. Mark Nardelli was telling me that he wanted me to be more involved, and I got the opportunity to come up here last year so I did. I’ve been trying to skate and film a lot. We’re putting out a video soon.
5Boro is making a video?
Yeah it’s going to be sick. Mulhern is working on it, he’s editing it, that’ll be cool. It should be done soon.
Who’s your normal crew you like to push around with?
Giorgio Villone, he’s been my homie for a really long time. Dylan Holderness, I’ve been filming with him and all his homies a lot. My roommate Sam McKenna, he shoots photos so we get out a lot. His crew like, Jasper Stieve and Eric Swick, I skate with them a lot. Pretty much everybody that was in that Puerto Rico video we put out, that’s Dylan’s crew. All those dudes are sick. Joey Rodriguez, Zack Fashouer, Sam Cardelfe, all those dudes are sick.
Do you feel more productive living with Sam and being able to shoot photos with him?
Fuck yeah. We just went out on Monday trying to get a trick at Grant’s Tomb. It’s sick because we’ve managed to shoot a good amount of shit since I’ve been up here. We figure it out easily because we live together. Sam’s the man, he’s a good guy.
Tell me about your recent trip to Puerto Rico.
It was the best trip I’ve ever been on hands down. Amazing crew first of all, and it was really well documented as well. Everyone got a lot of footage and everybody got along. There were no issues. You know how it is when there’s a lot of people on a trip, it can get hectic. There was none of that. It was great. We were just partying the whole time. Lots of photos, lots of video. I made my own edit with my VX. We covered a lot of spots. We’d go out skating every day, but we also did a bunch of other cool shit. We went to this sick waterfall. We were at the beach so we went swimming. We went through this sick town called Naranjito that has a bunch of really good spots and was so colorful. The food down there was awesome and pretty cheap. The Polar team happened to be there at the same time we were. It was sick.
If you could put anyone on 5Boro who would it be?
I put my friend Matt Militano in contact with Mark and now he’s getting boards. We’ve got Matt in the mix and it’s sick. He’s been doing a lot. He’s probably going to be up here pretty soon. There’s a couple other kids that I think would be pretty sick. My friend Christian Wood who is from South Carolina rips. He’s super consistent and a really good kid. He’s all about skating. If I had to pick a new kid to bring on I’d probably pick him. He’s a ripper.
Besides the 5Boro video do you have any other projects you’re working on?
Since I’ve moved up here that’s been the main thing. We haven’t put anything out in a couple of years so we’re overdue for a good video. I think that video’s going to be really cool. It’ll be refreshing and I think a lot of people will like it when it comes out.
Any shoutouts?
Shout out to Nardelli, Keith at Nike, Josh and Pat at Theories, Vern at Bones, Venture trucks, Dylan and all the homies I film with, Sam for shooting photos, Falla, Jimmy, and…JD for being the shit.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller. Photos by Kevin McGovern.
How did you manage to film a part in four days?
Honestly, I’m not really sure. Kev and Adam were just showing me a bunch of spots I had never skated before and it just happened to work out. We were just having a good time skating together and I think that played a big role.
Walk us through the process. Was it mission style from dusk till dawn?
It was pretty laid back, to be honest. Wake up in the morning, get some coffee and matcha then go try to warm up somewhere cool. I kind of just wanted to skate spots I hadn’t seen much footage of and play things by ear. I knew I wanted to get some footage on this trip but I didn’t expect to get that much. I just wanted to have fun with my friends that I hadn’t seen in a while and come home with a few things I was hyped on.
Did you go into this project with tricks in mind or did everything just come on it’s own?
I had one clip in mind for a spot in Orlando, but that’s it. I really like to just skate around new cities and see what happens. If I plan out a ton of tricks I’ll stress myself out and struggle, but if I don’t know what I’m going to skate It’s way easier to get footage and feels more natural.
This was filmed between Orlando and Tampa, how much time during these four days was spent on the road?
It doesn’t seem like we spent that much time driving around. When we werent filming, we were usually at different parks or getting acai bowls somewhere. We were all just skating as much as we could taking advantage of the nice weather.
After skating this hard for four days did you take some time off?
I actually went skating the day I got back and somehow got a clip. Then I went surfing for a few days and just skated around Charleston with my good friend C.J. trying to finish up a Vx part I’ve been working on.
Best memory from the time you spent working on this project?
Not to name names but, we randomly ran into an Orlando skate legend twice, skating by himself at some rail which I thought was pretty funny. Honestly though, just getting to spend time with Kev skating new spots and making some really cool memories was the best part. I can’t thank Kev enough for always being down for me to come through and showing me a good time. He’s a great human, that I consider myself lucky to call a close friend.

================================================================================

What is Bangladesh Street Kids Aid, and how long has it been around?
BSKA is a 501 c3 nonprofit organization based here in California but operating in Bangladesh. It offers skateboarding and creative arts programs to vulnerable youth that live and/or work on the streets. BSKA was officially registered in March of 2017 but I have been informally running skate programs in Bangladesh ever since my first trip there in 2007.
Describe the life of a Bangladeshi kid.
It varies between the different classes, but the kids we serve are from the very low-income class so I will speak on that.  They basically wake up in the street wherever they ended up crashing for the night, sometimes a stairwell, sometimes the middle of the road, or on a bus bench. A lot of them abuse inhalants so they can pretty much sleep through anything once they’re out. They wake up and start roaming the streets collecting recyclables to turn in for money, then usually meet up with a gang of other “street kids” or rastar baccha, in the Bangla terminology. The gang of kids get into a lot of trouble together (stealing, trespassing, loitering, etc.) and are looked down upon by other members of society as worthless and as a nuisance because they hang out in public areas and beg from people. For fun they love to climb trees, ride on the tops of trains or buses for a free fare to other areas of the city, and play sports like cricket, soccer, and badminton. There is a lot of British colonial influence within the realm of sports still. A lot of them have other odd jobs aside from collecting recyclables but are not the usual jobs you’d imagine a kid doing like welding, woodworking, bus driver assistant, and things like that.
What is it about skateboarding that you think will help improve the lives of the youth?
The Bangladeshi kids already like to take risks for fun, skateboarding gives them the opportunity and freedom to do just that in a safe and a bit more structured environment with positive mentors there to help them learn. It also gives them something to work at getting better at, something they can support each other doing together as friends. The wider community also sees them in a new light, as kids with enormous potential, when they see them confidently skateboarding. They are just skateboarders, and all the stereotypes that go along with different social classes, genders, religions, etc. disappear. Our street kids are also usually pretty weak and don’t have much of an appetite when we pick them up for skate sessions. Skating makes them hungry and we make sure to provide snacks and a healthy meal after every session. They usually want to stay active in other sports when we aren’t skateboarding. In general, they adopt a healthier lifestyle and stay away from inhalants as they become more involved in our skate programs.
Is there a skate scene in Bangladesh?
Yes, it’s relatively small compared to the skate scene in the U.S. but it’s growing day by day. The main barrier to skateboarding being able to take off in Bangladesh is the fact that there are still very limited places to skate in the super densely populated country. Imagine half of the U.S. population all living on a piece of land the size of New York state. Many people still live off the land in rural village areas. That’s why we’re based in the capital of Dhaka, there are tons of places to skate but a lot of issues with security guards as well. BSKA gets special permission to use a public park for our weekly skate sessions since we are working with vulnerable kids.  Even with a harsh climate and limited space to skate, there are still a lot of people who are crazy about skating. They even got their first board shop this year that hosted the country’s first Go Skateboarding Day event in 2019. Most of the skaters I know in Bangladesh have been relying on people to bring them skateboards for over 10 years now, so the shop has been a big help to them in growing their community. The Bangladeshis have their own indigenous form of a skateboard, made with four small steel wheels and bamboo, but it’s made only for butt-boarding. I’ve seen kids bomb hills on them though. They call their bamboo boards “cars” and when they see a skateboard for the first time they call it a “car” too and try to push each other around on it like they do with their traditional boards.
Aside from skateboarding, what are some services/programs BSKA offers for the youth?
Through that initial connection of skateboarding as a big group, we build trust with the kids and help them get back into school, provide emergency medical care, hot meals, personal care items, clothes, medicine and vitamins, and fun stuff like toys occasionally. We pay for school tuition and uniforms for kids that do well in school. We have art and English instruction programs along with constant mentorship about the dangers of living on the street and inhalant abuse. We also do our best to re-connect kids with their families whenever possible.
How did you get in contact with Josh (Wonders Around the World) about building a skatepark in Bangladesh?
Josh just shot me a message through Facebook. He told me that WAW has been set on building a skatepark in Bangladesh ever since they had some Bangladeshis help them on their build in the Maldives. Shortly after my conversation with Josh, I saw the article on Jenna Hirt in the Interview Issue of
Skate Jawn
by happenstance at my local skate shop, Lighthouse in Santa Barbara, California. Jenna is also a member of the WAW team. Now she is totally on board to help with the build in Bangladesh as well.
How long have you been fighting for a skatepark in Bangladesh?
The battle has been real for roughly ten years now. What I thought would be an easy process has been the most challenging yet rewarding experience of my life. First, I had to learn the language and come to understand their culture which is completely different than what I grew up in. I traveled back and forth to Bangladesh, sometimes two or three times a year, going back to the U.S. to work and save money so I could return. I’m fluent in Bangla now, but when I couldn’t speak the language I was very easily cheated out of a good chunk of my hard-earned money when I tried to purchase some land to build the skatepark on. Making connections with people I can trust was one of the hardest parts of being a foreigner in Bangladesh. The country is known for its outstanding hospitality, but some exceptionally crafty people used a false version of this hospitality as a way to get into my bank account. It has been hard to raise support beyond my own funds and some donations from close friends and family since only a few supporters comprehend what a useful tool skateboarding is to empower the youth. We’ve been denied grants solely on the fact that our programs are “skateboarding-related.”Now that the Olympics are finally recognizing it as an official sport, I’m hoping fundraising will get a bit easier. BSKA also secured a partnership with the Goodpush Alliance, an initiative of Skateistan to share knowledge among social skate projects worldwide. We now have access to a network of genuinely good people that are highly supportive of skateboarding projects. Goodpush is also helping us with the logistics of making the skatepark happen and making our programs more effective. Being a female and the head of this organization, is another challenge by itself. I get strange looks everywhere I go in Bangladesh, and people ask a lot of questions about why I’m not married yet, 33 is way past the cut-off of 25 to get married in Bangladesh. Even here in the U.S.A. people question the fact of whether or not I can even skate, just because I’m a girl. Do people question guys that say they’re skaters about whether or not they can really skate? No. I think if I’d been a male, this project would have moved on a lot more quickly. I have wanted to just give up so many times but something miraculous always happens that keeps the fire lit, and I’m super confident that my BSKA team, the WAW team, and the amazing folks at Goodpush are going to make the skatepark in Bangladesh a reality in the very near future!
Will this be the first skatepark in Bangladesh?
Yes! All of their neighboring countries like Nepal, India, and Myanmar have parks. Now it’s Bangladesh’s time. It will be done by February 2020.
Is there currently a design for the skatepark?
Yes, it is a basic plaza design with a good mix of transition and street elements but we will be integrating the ideas of the local skaters so it’s up for any number of changes up until the actual build. Josh from WAW and his team spearheaded the initial design and proposal.
What are the goals of the skatepark?
To be a safe place where kids can learn how to skate and receive lots of care and support from BSKA staff and volunteers. This park will serve as a place for our BSKA kids to work on their skills, build confidence, and realize their enormous amount of potential. It will also be a hub for community events like skate camps, art and music performances, and relevant workshops.
How can people get involved/ volunteer/ donate?
By visiting our website
www.bskaid.org
BSKA will be doing a call for international volunteers for either 1-month, 3-month, or 6-month long volunteer placements. We will also launched an official online fundraiser for this project in August 2019.
Any shout outs or last words?
I’m just so thankful and stoked that this park is finally going to be built. It’s been a long road to say the least. I’m looking forward to seeing how much the kids are going to progress once they have some new obstacles to practice on. Shout out to everyone who helped bring this project to this point so far: George Powell (who donated the first boards to Bangladesh), Heidi Lemmon of Salt Rags skateboards, SPAUSA, Jersey Mike at Mini-Logo/Skate-One, Sohail Ahmed for donating the land we will build on, Aysha Monica for helping run our programs and so much more, and to the kids of Bangladesh for being my inspiration to keep going even when I think things are way beyond me. Biggest shout out goes to my huge-hearted parents, Margie and Chuck Halsell, for showing so much love and support throughout all the years I’ve been chasing this dream.

================================================================================

Name? Job? Years Skateboarding?
Derrick Blaine Dykas, I run Community Push by day, I’m a grumpy bartender by night and I’ve been riding a skateboard for 20 years now.
What is Community Push?
Community Push is a nonprofit I started a few years back to help progress skateboarding in the city of Detroit. All the shops were in the suburbs, and there wasn’t a voice for skateboarding in the city. The first thing we did was adopt the abandoned courts at the Wigle Recreation center and made The Wig. And since then, we let it take its own shape. We’ve collected and distributed about 40 completes for kids in the city, hosted dozens of events, contests, video premieres, built streets spots and more recently, are getting hired by the city to oversee design and construction on the first skatepark the city is building.
What’s up with the event you did yesterday?
Yesterday we did Open Streets Detroit, an event that closes down a large chunk of the streets in the city to promote health, wellness and community. They asked us to bring the element of skateboarding to the event, and since we normally build with cement, it was fun building stuff out of wood for a change. We had a good location for the event, and everyone had a great time.
Is the Wig still around? Do you ever think it will be demolished?
The Wig, The Wig, The Wig. Yes, the Wig is still there, and as fun as ever, but for how long, I still don’t know. There has been some issues with the land, and they’ve been holding it over our heads for almost two years. It’s not deliberate, it’s just bureaucratic bullshit no skateboarder wants to hear. We adopted the land, and then a developer came in and is trying to build housing in its place. I’ve heard on the city side of things the proposal might fall through, but I can’t believe anything they tell me any more, it keeps changing. I’m just going to ride it out, it’s my favorite place on earth.
Best thing you’ve seen at the Wig?
The best thing I’ve seen at The Wig can’t be summed up in a single answer. From Zered’s frontside grind the top of the deathbox on the wall when it was still up, Tony Christopher going over the entire pyramid, Ray Barbee doing flatground 360 flips, random dude getting jerked off on the bench. But the best thing I’ve seen over time has been the way it has brought everyone together to make it happen. Everyone has brought something to the table, and The Wig is everyone sitting down to eat.
Favorite MI skaters?
Ehhh, that’s tough, people come and go. But currently—Francois Decomble. Nobody has more fun on a skateboard than he does, and that reflects every time you see him on one. Past would have to be Josh Robertson. Style, trick selection, spots, attitude, he’s got it all. He moved to SF a decade ago, and kids here still look up to him. Honorable mention goes to Jamie Jeffery, Windsor is close enough to Detroit to count. Fuck the border.
What does the future of Detroit skateboarding look like?
Bright as fuck. The Danger boys will be holding it down for the next decade while everyone else slips into small tranny retirement.
Future of Community Push?
The future of Community Push is exciting. I’ve got no idea where it’s going to end up. Every time I think something is going to happen, something better comes out of it. But next year we’ve got the Riverside Park that the city is paying us to run operations of, and hopefully an indoor spot before then. But I’d like to focus on more community outreach and programming once we can get a permanent home. But that’s the most important thing, is giving everyone somewhere fun to skate.
What is a Hoe Check?
Hoe Check is a term I picked up behind bars years ago. I guess it derives from a pimp keeping tabs on what’s his, but it’s basically just a way of fucking with your friends. Write it somewhere creative so they see it later on and know they got got. Call someone up and when they ask what’s going on tell them nothing, just hoe checking, and hang up. It’s not a sexist term or anything, more men are hoes than women these days.
How many bags of Doritos do you consume in one month?
That flexes, sometimes I’ll just eat them for dinner not because I can’t afford anything better, but because I feel nothing will taste as good. But over the course of the year, I could probably buy a car. A nice one with air conditioning.
When is the next event your throwing?
That’s currently up in the air. We have had two the last two weeks and the last one took a couple hundred out of my pocket, so we might need to hold up for a minute while we work on some stuff. I wish running Community Push was just throwing parties all the time, but we’ve got too much work going on right now. And it’s not even the fun work that gets you dirty.

================================================================================

What is The Vacation? You’ve probably seen some of their posts or that section in Headcleaner, but maybe you want to know how it started, and who is involved. Spivey was working the night I hit him up, but still gave me some answers in between deliveries. – Smalls
What up, you at work? Where you working right now?
Number One Chinese Delivery. Stayin strong, my dude, holdin it down.
Alright I’ll make this quick. How did The Vacation begin?
Damon asked me if I wanted to help him work on something separate from Politic, with less dudes.
And where did this name come from?
I think it was just a battle of names and Damon came up with it. Him and Creasy [Threads video] were backin it the hardest and they went with that one. Mostly the whole vacation from real life things.
I know you’re buddies with Brian (Powderly), but how did the rest of the team come about?
That was mostly through Creasy. David Clark was getting boards through Deluxe, and I dunno if they had any plans for him. John Ettman, Damon, and CB had been talking about him getting on Politic and they put him on The Vacation. The squad is just four dudes, yup.
And this is affiliated with Politic?
Yeah I guess it’s like a little sister brand, still Damon and CB fully. Hold up dude, I gotta make this delivery real quick.
All good dude, do your thing.
-sounds of Spivey making a delivery- Yo yo! I’m back.
I think I’ve only got one more question here. I know you’ve drawn a couple board graphics already, but will you always be as involved with the art?
That was my impression for a little bit, but no I just did two drawings for the first release. Getting graphics okay’d would be easier with just Damon and CB onboard, instead of working with other graphic dudes. So yeah, when he came to me it was more like you wanna do some…cause I’d been trying to get graphics pushed for Politic for awhile and he said it was a little bit harder. So far this one, he gave me some freedoms as far as drawing graphics.
So pretty much do whatever you want?
Yeah, kinda. I haven’t tried to get too many things pushed, but I hope as this goes on that I’ll at least be in control of designing my pro model boards. Cause you know, you try to do too many things, but if I can just do mine I’ll be hyped. Not all of them, but at least one or two at a time, or something. I got a new drawing coming out for the next batch of boards too, I’m excited for that for sure. I’ve never seen anything that I’ve drawn come out on a board, so I’m pretty hyped for that. Hyped to skate em and shit.

================================================================================

So where are you living right now?
Right now I’m living in Long Beach, with all the boys. Fuckin Ishod, Berman, and Travis, and Duff. Even though half of them haven’t been here in a while.
How long you been there?
We moved last April, but I was on a trip the whole summer, so I feel like I’ve been here for a while.
You ever rode a dirt bike in Philly?
No, but I know they have a no chase law, which is pretty good. You always see it and you’re just like dammit I want to do that, but it’d be a little sketchy. Tight streets, but I guess you gotta get good enough to get out there.
So do you really like Cali?
I mean, it’s hard to say. I haven’t had much of a life other than just skating out here, so I don’t know. I definitely miss the East way more than I like it out here. Cause skating is good anywhere, obviously it’s good out here cause of the weather and you can just skate year round. It never rains, there’s tons of spots, tons of people. So it’s good for skating. But if I wasn’t skateboarding I would not be here. Straight up.
Word. How many cinnamon rolls can you eat in one sitting?
Fuck. We talking like Cinnabon Roll? Or like Pilsberry you make at home? Cause I could probably rock a whole tin of the ones you make at home. But the Cinnabons? I could probablu fuck up two or three of those. I went food shopping last night, and bought cinnamon rolls.
What was it like having a pet squirrel growing up?
Haha, that shit was crazy, so random. It never like kicked it in the house. It would just stay in these trees right down the street when I was in elementary school. When it was a baby I just started feeding it and eventually it would get closer and closer. Fuck, it used to hang out all the time. It was sick.
Did it have a name?
I named it paw. Cause he would always just come up and hold his paw out, he was just ready. I would give him nuts. I could see myself doing that again, cause that dude was tight. But we just got a little praying mantis out front the other night. He’s been lurking around the crib and we’ve been giving him crickets, it’s so sick.
You know how to do metal working right? You ever make a flat bar? Or any skate shit?
Yeah I mean I was working, I never had a good welder to do outside shit, other than the stuff at work. I’ve built a few flatbars, but they’re all back East, I would love to have a little workshop to build whatever the fuck I want. That’s why at Blackbox it was awesome. Cause on the weekends if I was hurt, or wasn’t skating I could just sit there and anything that came into my mind I could just try to build. Like me and Dane built a vert wall with a little bridge like a quarterpipe, kinda spiced things up a little bit. Never got a chance to really make some shit, I know you guys got it right over there at the Jawn warehouse. Which I haven’t seen in months, but last time I was there that shit was fucking awesome.
Dude that shit’s R.I.P. man.
Noooo way. That is a bummer. Damn.
So what’s the perfect recipe for a spliff?
It’s definitely like a 60/40. Ishod doesn’t like tobacco, but I’m definitely more tobacco than not kinda guy.
What’s the worst job you’ve ever had?
Uhhh, fuck. I worked at Staples office supply store, when I was like 17. And that was definitely the fucking worst. Just stocking shelves with paper and pens and office supplies. I don’t know what the fuck I was doing there. I remember one time me and another coworker got there super early, and stacked carts all in front of the doors so we all had to get to work late cause no one could get in.
Can you tell me a little bit about how shit went down at Black Box?
I mean its really complicated, I don’t even really know what the fuck happened. I mean they’re obviously downsizing and they’ve been in the building since like the early 2000’s when they were killing it with all the brands. And they had this ginormous building with the park. So Jamie sold the building like a year ago, and I guess they were just paying rent on the space they were using. That’s why California skateparks came in, and some other random people came in. As far as I was concerned, I had gotton on Mystery but I’d never had an ad or anything. I was working on something for Mystery, then I got into a little ATV accident at Chris Cole’s house and couldn’t skate for like fucking four months. Then by that time they were fucking with the Fallen video, and then the Zero video, so they couldn’t put together any of my footage I had. So that never came out, and I never got an ad. Then I went on that trip and I was away for so long I was just like fuck it I’m gonna quit. And we had all moved out in April, the building’s still there but the park’s called something else, its not called Blackbox anymore, and they made it way better than it was before. But I guess Zero and Fallen are out of Tum Yeto and Slave is being run by Ben out of his garage, just keeping it afloat. So big ups to Ben for keeping that going, and keeping Zero and Fallen going at least, I think Mystery has a buyer too, but I don’t know what is gonna happen with that.
And whats up with you man?
Fuck…I’m coming back from a rolled ankle for the past month, so I’ve been rolling around and just kinda getting back in the swing of things. Still can’t nollie, or switch ollie or anything. I can still cruise around and have fun, but not quite there yet. Other than that, skating as much as I can. I put that part out. Sitting on no footage and no sponsors.
That part was sick though. How did that all come about?
Well I had all my footage from when I was filming for Mystery, and then the stuff from when I moved out here with Ant. Just going filming with all the homies and then the rest was just from driving from skatepark to skatepark during that trip and hitting everything we could on the way. It kinda added up. We got back from the trip, skated a couple more California spots and it just kind of came together. And a while ago I think it was at Ishod’s SOTY party up in S.F. I was talking to the dude at Thrasher. He asked if I wanted a Thrasher part and I said yeah. I got all this footage together cause I wasn’t on a team or have someone to give all this footage to so I was like fuck it, maybe they’ll still want a Thrasher part, So we sent it and they were super down. It all just kinda fell into place and worked out.
Wanna say thanks?
Definitely a shout out to Max, and everyone at Skate Jawn cause they’re fucking homies. And definitely a big thanks to Thrasher, John Note and Ant Travis, Bart for everything. All the homies out here, in the house, fucking keep ripping.

================================================================================

What’s up? Want to get this started?
Yeah, sorry about the other night, I was pretty fucking hammered man.
Ha, all good. You still living in Jersey?
I’m in Brooklyn, South Williamsburg. I’ve been out here like almost two years now.
When did you turn pro?
Damn, 20 years ago for Alien Workshop. When I was 15 they turned me pro.
When did you start skating?
When I was probably like 9. My friend Dominick just had a board one day, he could ollie and shit and I was pretty blown away. So I just started borrowing his board and trying to ollie over 2×4’s on their side in the tennis court. And then I eventually got my own good board, a Bill Danforth, that was my first board.
Turning pro at 15, is there any one who helped you figure out what you had to do being a pro skater?
I mean they turned me pro and they sent me straight to Europe. That was my first pro contest, in Europe. And I got sent out there with Rob Dyrdek and he kinda helped me out a lot. Then in the Philly days Ricky Oyola and shit.
I heard you lived at 19th and Spring Garden for a while?
Yeah probably for like 3 years. I lived with Jerry Fisher and Matt Reason.
Did you ride for a company called Badakole, out of Jerz, back in the day?
Actually everybody else rode for them. I wasn’t on, but Quim would get flowed product and stuff. Quim Cardona, Mike Cardona, Matt Field, all these dudes got flowed from them. I think Quim and them knew the dude through my friend Reshawn actually.
How much time out of the year do you normally spend traveling?
Usually a lot, like at least 6 months out of the year. But I mean It’s been slow in the past year and half or so. Haven’t really been too many places.
Last trip you went on?
Detroit. We went on a trip in the summer to Detroit with Dave Caddo, Jerry Mraz, and Greg Huff. It’s real fucking gnarly. It’s lawless, you can do what you want pretty much.
Anywhere you want to travel to but never been yet?
South Africa, definitely, I was just talking about that today actually.
What’s gnarlier, Columbia or Newark?
I mean they both got their gnarly tendencies but Columbia is probably gnarlier.
Seen any fucked up shit out there?
In Columbia? Nah I mean it was pretty mellow for the most part. But it could get gnarly pretty easy. We were checking out this spot one night at like 4am at this train station. And I guess the train station had just gotten bombed a couple weeks earlier. This cop just appeared out of nowhere and had his gun drawn on us and I started speaking English to him, my friend was like “Shut up! Don’t speak English!” He ended up searching us and then just letting us go, but they thought we were up to no good so they fucked with us.
Tell me a little about Domestics?
Domestics is Jersey born and bred, just the local company. It’s me and Joe Dorsi, he’s my partner, and we make t-shirts, sweatshirts, hats, everything. Straight outta Jersey. Come check it.
It seems like you skate drunk a lot, you ever film a trick and not remember it in the morning?
Uh, I try not to let that shit happen. You don’t even want to do that. But it has happened before. Hell yeah man, the NJ scum edit.
You’ve had the same sponsors forever. What do you think about all these changes happening, with teams and companies?
Yeah I know it’s kind of a crazy time. I mean I’m just staying put. I’m not trying to go anywhere.
Ever been caught skating a pool?
Actually a couple times. One time with Quim we got arrested and shit. It sucked. It was in Totowa, New Jersey. We like snuck in the back and then these dudes found out we were going to skate there so they came in the front cause it was like a community pool, somebody called the cops. But Joe Tookmanian, his dad actually got us out. I guess his uncle was a cop in that town or something.
Ever been caught by the owners?
Yeah actually, in Long Island. They were just like what the fuck are you doing here, get out, what the fuck. We just had to play dumb, say sorry and then just dipped.
Who / what made you want to skate switch?
I guess Salman Agah was my major switch influence. He was just doing it. He was like the first one to start doing switch ollies and all that shit. Just skating switch in general. And Guy Mariano for sure.
Favorite skater from Jerz?
Probably Quim. Or Mike Daher is actually from Jersey too.
How long have you known Quim?
Since I was like probably 11 or 12 years old. Him and Mike, we would always go to these contests, they were like the other little kids that were really good. We used to compete against each other a lot and shit, it was pretty funny.
Most Heineken you’ve drank on a session?
Aw man I couldn’t even tell you. A pretty lot.
Most Odouls you ever drank at once?
I’ve drank like a twelver of those before, just to be drinking.
I’m sure you skated contests coming up, what was the biggest?
Those ones in Europe were pretty big. The World Cup of Skateboarding in Germany. That was like way early 90’s. England and Munster Germany. Those were pretty fucking huge. The Germany one was in this big ass arena, like a hockey arena or something.
What was one of the most fun video parts to film?
Inhabitants was pretty fun. But I mean the Subzero video was by far the most fun. because everything was new, you know what I mean. That was like the first video part I ever put out besides the Tracker video and shit like that.
Got any projects coming up?
Well we’re definitely going to work on a Domestics video.

================================================================================

How old are you and where are you from?
I’m 28 and I’m from the Gold Coast, Australia.
When did you get into skating and when did you pick up a vx?
I started skating around christmas of 2004 and started filming vx in 2016.
So tell me about The Skate Witches. How did it all start and what are you all up to now?
It’s a side project with one of my best friends Kristin Ebeling. We named our Seattle all city showdown team the skate witches in 2013 and we made the first zine in 2014. It was just a 11 x 17 paper folded up to a few pages. We just put out Zine 14 today. It has Dayana Young on the cover, Clara Solar, Una Farrar, Cher Strauberry, Dana Jeck, Johanna Juzelius to name a few within, with photos shot by Ashley Rosemeyer, Norma Ibarra, Sarah Muerle and more.
How long have you been working on Credits? Where’s most of the footage filmed?
We started filming in April last year. Most the footage was filmed in NY, SF, Miami, Barcelona, and Melbourne.
Do you think there’s been many videos with an all-female cast as well as filmer and editor?
Yuri Murai makes the Joy & Sorrow full lengths from Japan. Villa Villa Cola ‘Getting Nowhere Faster’ was made by Lori D, Lisa Whitaker, Nicole & Tiffany Campbell. Gallaz ‘aka girl skater’ had a lot of it filmed by Lisa Whittaker but it was edited by a dude.
Who are some of your influences for filming?
My friend Shane Auckland got me stoked on filming VX, he’s an amazing filmer. I like Isle & Atlantic Drift filming & editing. Hockey & 917. Right now I really like Frog edits.
What about skating?
Everyone in the Credits video, and I like watching Chris Milic, Andrew Allen, Heitor Da Silva.
Favorite city to skate in?
New York.
What is it that’s so much better about the streets than the skateparks?
Everything is harder, I think it’s more rewarding to land a trick. After a day of skating street compared to a park I feel like I did more with my day, saw more, random stuff happens around you, it’s just more exciting.
I dig the way you represent skating, by both your filming and your skating. Do you have any advice for women out there on how to be comfortable expressing themselves in skateboarding culture?
Thank you, that’s nice of you to say. That’s a hard one, I don’t even feel comfortable expressing myself most of the time, but I guess try to remember what makes you happy and surround yourself with people who appreciate you for you.
What about “making it” in the industry?
I have no idea…
Any projects in the pipeline?
I have some thoughts but nothing going yet.
Got any shoutouts?
Una, Fabi & Breezy, so stoked for you all. You absolutely killed it. Thanks to everyone in the video for being the best people to travel and spend the last year with! Thanks to Frank for looking after us & being there through all the ups & downs, Justin for the opportunity, & Zach for all the back end work on the project. Cierra for all her support & Norma for taking photos and documenting the video. Oli, Sam, Rye, Tanner, & Greg for all the feedback & support. And all my friends in & out of skateboarding. Much love. -Shari
Watch the full video above and check out the new zine by the Skate Witches here:
https://www.theskatewitches.com/

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller.
How long have you been shooting photos?
I’ve been taking photographs since 1998 when I began to study advertising in college. There I received an introductory course to photography, but I think that from a very young age I had a fondness for it. I took my first photos when I was 12 and in the last year of elementary school. Then at 13 I began to discover skateboarding and put photography aside for a while.
Tell me about the moment you fell in love with skateboarding.
I fell in love with skateboarding in 1985, when some skaters from that time went to the park near where I lived and were doing all sorts of tricks that I didn’t understand and that seemed too radical. They lived nearby and used to put two launch ramps outside of their house in front of each other forming a mini ramp. That’s when I said to myself, “this is my thing.”
Do you remember the first skate photo you shot?
The first skate photograph I took was in 1996, in that park in my community. It was my friend Daniel “Junior” Salazar doing a big ollie down a gap from the top of a kiosk and over the sidewalk into the street. I took it on one of those plastic cameras my parents used for family outings.
What cameras are you using now?
I’m currently using a Nikon D7000 for digital photography. I also take analog pictures, I use a Mamiya 500 DTL 35mm and a Mamiya C3 120mm in a medium format.
What other essentials do you keep in the camera bag?
I always carry one of those multipurpose blades, a small battery to charge the phone, a couple of extra shoelaces to tie flashes wherever you need them, an automatic blade, and folding pliers.
When you do shoot analog does this include skate photos?
I always try to take some film photos during every session. The biggest challenge is that you do not see what you are taking. You are using a full frame camera, nothing you see in the camera’s viewfinder will be cropped. What you see is what you get. I actually feel more confident when I take photos on film than when I do digitally because of that. The only thing I really like about digital is that it is faster for our modern lives in this digital age. But in terms of realism and quality, film has no comparison so far.
Have you ever developed your own film?
In the beginning when I was an advertising student I learned to develop in a very basic way. Then some neighbors started a developing business even though no one was doing it anymore. So I decided I could leave that job to them since they had a lot of experience and I thought it was a good idea to support your local store. Now after all these years I am still developing with them and they have never failed me.
What’s the scene like in Costa Rica?
It’s quite a large scene that has developed since the mid-late ‘70s when surfers from California came for a famous wave that formed in Mata de Limón on the Pacific Coast. According to them, they were the ones who brought the first skateboards to Costa Rica. From that time on the fever for skateboarding continued to grow and develop until today.
With such a large scene there, have you ever shot surfing?
The idea has come up many times. With such a large movement, the big sponsors, and all the help given to national surfing, sometimes I think I’m in the wrong sport. But like skateboarding, you must be a surfer to be a real surf photographer. I tried to surf a few times but I could never do it due to financial limitations. To be a surfer you need to live by the beach and I’ve always been a city dweller. I have taken photos a couple of times of some friends who surf, but it really only has been two or three photos ever.
Do you feel like Costa Rica gets slept on by the international skate community? Why would you recommend it to skaters looking to travel?
The truth is that we are ignored by the world. I think it is because we are a third world country. There is a lot of talent in the streets, but there they remain due to lack of real support. The problem here has always been the same, groups of wealthy people who see a niche market in skateboarding but have never actually ridden a skateboard in their lives. I’d recommend that you visit the country, all those who have come haven’t wanted to leave. They always want more from Costa Rica.
What’s the craziest situation you’ve had shooting?
In 2005 my brother and I had just made a video we managed to get sponsors for. It premiered in a theater and the profits we made from that were to be used to buy a digital camera that we needed. We went to buy it in Panama because at that time there were no stores that sold photography products except for one with exorbitant prices. After documenting some skateboarding with the local scene and some other Costa Ricans who went on the trip we returned home with the new camera. Three weeks later while we were having a session like any other at a spot near the capital, two men on a motorcycle approached us and pulled a gun, stripping us of the new camera and the only video camera we had. In a violent way they had taken everything that had cost us so much to achieve. Luckily no one was injured, the guy was violent and seemed to be waiting the minimum to shoot. After this we received help from family members to once again get the money to travel back to Panama to buy another camera. In street skateboarding you can’t trust yourself or turn your back on anyone. Since then I always carry a knife with me and keep one eye looking over my shoulder.
Do you have any advice to people looking to get into skate photography?
If you want to take pictures of skateboarding, you must be a skater. That same patience and stubbornness that skateboarding gives you to keep trying comes out, because photography is the same. You must take many photos, practice a lot, and never get discouraged. You also need to be patient with the skater you are going to photograph, as the trick can come out first try or take hours. Go out in the streets, search for and find your own style. Just like every skater has their own, you should look for yours.

================================================================================

How long have you been skating and when did you start?
I got my first board when I was pretty young and just kind of rode around on it for a little while, but didn’t really get into it until about 4 or 5 years ago. Now, I skate everyday I can, for as long as I can, and I don’t plan on stopping until I die.
So have you always had an interest in photography, or did skateboarding get you onto it?
Once I got into skating, I started reading skate mags, and loved looking at the photos and thought it would be so much fun to shoot photos of my friends skating. I saved up all my money and bought a camera with no knowledge of a camera at all, and just taught myself hot to shoot photos and studied magazines to try and get better.
What do you have in your camera bag?
I have a Canon Rebel XSi with a few different lenses and three flashes. I mostly shoot 50mm, but have been borrowing a fisheye from a friend the past couple weeks. I’m trying to save some money now to buy a fisheye of my own.
Who do you usually go out shooting with?
I shoot a lot with Dave Labbe, Mike Gustafson, P-Vann Phum, Garrett Brooks, Dave Green, Jay Brown pretty much any of the Portland locals. I just bring my camera with me when I skate everyday and pretty much shoot whatever tricks go down.
What projects do you have going on right now?
Right now I’m working on a couple different interviews for the
Maine Skateboarding
website, and I recently finished working on Mike Gustafson’s interview that was featured in the second issue of
Skate Jawn.
Are you only working on photography stuff, or filming for videos/skating in them?
Right now I’m finishing a part for a video out of NH called “Straight Outta Conway” and after that I plan on filming for the Maine Skateboarding vid.
So you’re a senior this year in Portland, are you thinking about going to a city that could help out your skate photography?
I’m really trying to go to school down in NYC, and see where I can go with photography. I can’t think of anything else I would want to do more.
So after you go to school, will you still be coming back to shoot in Maine? Would you say you’re going somewhere metropolitan to get into the skateboarding industry?
I don’t really see myself moving out to Maine. I would like to stay in NYC, but I’ll see what happens.
Thanks for taking the time, and doing this for
Skate Jawn
. Is there anyone you would like to thank?
I would like to thank anyone who has supported my photography, especially Travis Storer for backing me on the Maine Skateboarding page. I would also like to thank all the Portland locals for the support and the good times skating.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller.
When did you start shooting photos? And what inspired you to start shooting film?
Since I started skateboarding, I always wanted to record it, being influenced by the skateboarding videos I was watching. I was hanging out with older guys who got video cameras and were into editing and shooting photos. It was only years after I started skateboarding that I got my first camera. I was probably 18.
Do you remember how your first roll of film turned out once it was developed?
Yeah I remember the first roll of film I shot. It was from a compact camera that I got for my birthday right before a trip with friends, and I got this overwhelming desire to fix these memories on something material.
Do you develop your own film? What’s that process like?
After shooting the first couple rolls I was immediately interested in the development process. I liked the idea of doing everything myself without anyone seeing it or involved in it. The process is in two main steps; developing the picture, and fixing it into the film so light won’t affect it anymore. It’s chemical reactions.
Do you always have your camera on hand when you go out skating?
I don’t have my camera all the time when I go out skating, it depends what “mode” I am in. If I go out to try a trick I wouldn’t bring it to be focused only on my skating. When I’m on a trip I always have it though.
Has traveling inspired you to shoot or did you already enjoy shooting photos before you began traveling the world?
Traveling is a big part of my inspiration. I never shot pictures before I started traveling and because I have a bad memory I thought that it would be an easy way to remember things.
What camera are you using?
I have a couple of cameras, but I like the compact one that you can use without focusing to capture the immediate moment.
What type of subjects are your favorite to shoot?
I don’t have specifics that I like to shoot more. It’s just stuff that I think could look cool or interesting while I’m shooting. The main subjects are the streets, friends, and moments I live.
Do you always shoot in black and white?
I mostly shoot in black and white because the developing process is easier than the color, and like I said I want to do everything myself. I’m not ready to play with the “color film world” yet, and I have a lot of things to explore in black and white.
The cover and Eastern Europe article you shot in issue #47 were sick. How often do you shoot skating?
It’s pretty rare that I’m shooting skate pictures. I like what gravitates all around it.
Are there any photographers who inspire you?
I’m really into Japanese photography, so Takuma Nakahira or Tamiko Nishimura are the ones coming to mind right now. Also the contemporary photographers Todd Hido, Paul Graham, and Daisuke Yokota.
How many zines have you put out and what makes you want to keep putting them out?
I think I’ve done eight zines so far. I like having something in my hands and the whole process of producing something is interesting, and you learn something about yourself in a way.
What was up with that slam in the “Boom” clip on that huge hubba?
I went to try that trick three times and tried only four or five times each because I was too scared. I was close and didn’t want to come back because I was thinking about it too much, and I wanted to get it out of my head. I went all in on that one, but I didn’t lock in. Since the top of the ledge isn’t straight I slipped out.

================================================================================

Photos and words by Kyle Anderson.
Wes and Keenan are childhood friends from Tampa. They met when they were ten years old at the Skatepark of Tampa. After high school they headed for Chino, California moving in with filmer and fellow Floridian Jean-Luc Vida. Wes and Keenan quickly got jobs at Amazon. They are both flow for Chocolate, both maintaining long distance relationships with girls they left in Tampa, and both wrapping up video parts for Jean-Luc’s
Not Another VX Video
being released in November.
As Interesting as their story is, it’s still pretty typical in skateboarding, “Teenager finishes high school, and moves to Southern California to skate, blah blah blah.” I can’t imagine anybody being interested in how these kids respond to the same tame, predictable questions. Here are some anyway…
You guys have been in Chino for about a year. Who came out here first?
WB: Me, but pretty much at the same time.
Did you guys brainstorm a plan to both move out here?
KL: Kinda. Jean-Luc invited us out a little over a year ago, we made a plan.
How long had you guys been getting boxes from Chocolate at that point?
WB: Around five years.
KL: For about three years.
What do you think Southern California is lacking? It has gotten better, thanks to the help of transplants like yourselves. But the scene here was pretty embarrassing and predictable ten years ago. What does Florida have that California doesn’t?
WB: Most people won’t see something as a spot if it isn’t some perfect skatepark looking spot. Florida has some grit.
KL: Yeah, the crust is real in Florida. Some people are too spooked to deal with that.
Most of the country looks down on well manicured California spots, but I can’t walk ten feet in Long Beach without bumping into three dickheads from Florida. Why are you all coming here?
WB: The opportunity and change of scenery. Something new to do every day. And so many of our friends are already out here.
KL: It has always been a dream to come and skate here, rather than just seeing it in videos.
As kids, were you aware of how monotonous it was, or were you excited to see the Wilshire rails in a video for the 100th time?
WB: We knew Southern California was big enough so we didn’t have to do what everybody else was doing.
How is California different than you imagined?
KL: It’s cool and pretty, but it made me appreciate Florida more.
WB: Shit’s kinda crazy out here. People say Floridians are crazy, but it might be more wild out here than Florida.
How much Florida footage do you guys have for Jean-Luc’s video?
WB: Fucking none. I wish I had some.
KL: Tampa clips would have been tight.
If he does premiere the video in Tampa, how much shit are going to catch from the locals for all
the bright sunny schoolyards and perfect ledges?
KL: Shit, I think folks will be hyped we are skating perfect spots now.
WB: At least we haven’t skated the LA courthouse…
Whose idea was it to work at Amazon?
KL: I don’t remember. We needed money.
WB: Yeah, we needed a quick job, with flexible hours so we can skate.
Is Amazon as awful as they’ve portrayed?
KL: It isn’t the best job and I would definitely rather work somewhere else, but it isn’t too bad to get me to leave.
WB: It’s hectic and fast paced. They have a pretty insane and strict system. But a job’s a job.
You want to thank anybody?
KL: My girl, Skate JAwn, Chocolate, Adidas, HUF, Spitfire, and Thunder. And shoutout to my family back home, my brother, and God for making the universe.
WB: Friends, family, my girl, Chocolate, Vans, and Royal Trucks.

================================================================================

Interview by Jon Rezonable.
Photos by Chris Morgan.
Every time we film I feel like you end up bleeding somewhere or banged up. Do the students ever ask questions about that?
Sometimes they’ll ask about it, but they kinda know dude. I try to hide it, but htey can tell if I’m moving around slow.
Does the class dynamic change once the students know you skate?
I had a kid who raised his hand to tell me that he looked me up on YouTube. I think they’re more interested in the fact that I’m on the internet. I guess I’m just glad they don’t have a point of reference to understand how bad my kickflip is.
You teach the skate club too right?
Yeah, we’re trying to build ramps for a demo at our school. My principal is stoked on getting the kids stoked. He let me ollie over him last year, the kids loved it. Shouts out Paco!
Is there ever a time when the kids get to see Josh, rather than “Mr. Paz”?
They’re kinda the same, but Josh cusses more. We’re all a little different when we’re outside of work or school.
You’ve been skating with the same people you started with twenty years ago, how did that happen?
Hercules, the best city in the bay. We just all stayed connected. I know a lot of people from Hercules that still hang with the same people from twenty years ago. Maybe it’s the water.
That’s Benal right?
Yup, straight up Benal squad. I’ve been skating with these dudes since I was 11. We made videos in high school, and it’s funny that we’re in our thirties and we’re still doing the same thing. But instead of every weekend, now we’re balancing work and family schedules. Shouts out to Ben L and Waxboy for keeping the East Bay zoggy.
On the topic of people being in your life for a long time, you’re actually marrying your fiance who you met in middle school right?
I met Jackie when I was in sixth grade. We used to only talk through AIM, but we’d never talk in person. After the awkward middle school phase, we figured out how to be human in front of each other. Now we’re getting married!
You’ve had a core group of people in your life for a long time, seems like loyalty is pretty important to you?
Loyalty and reliability are the two biggest things. If you can rely on someone’s word and they’re loyal, then that’s someone who’s down for life. That’s why I’ve stayed around the same group of people.
In addition to maintaining relationships, you are skating, filming, working, being a dog dad, fishing, looking for houses, and planning a wedding. How do you fit all of that into a week?
I kinda like when I’m just doing a lot of shit. I just like getting shit done. I can’t sit still, for better or worse. I think I run my body into the ground sometimes so that I can chill out the next day.
Last words or shoutouts before I let you go?
Excited for the 12 video to drop, Benal video later this year, and
Broadways/Pathways
2 coming soon. Thanks, this was weird.

================================================================================

What you been up to today?
My camera got recalled by Nikon and Ritz Camera sold it to me knowing that, so I went in there and tried to get them to exchange it but they weren’t having it. So this is a perfect opportunity to tell people don’t buy shit from Ritz, they scam you!
Where are you from?
Austin, Texas originally.
How old are you?
Man I’m thirty six.
How are you related to Guru?
Well we’re not related by blood really, I guess we’re related by religion. We’re friends now, which is funny because I met him in India which is where we both went to boarding school. I’m a few years older than him and I was out there when I was like ten years old, so he had to be like five or six. So it came to be that he was from Houston, and I’m from Austin and our parents actually knew each other, but we never knew that. Then I was skating a contest in Houston and seen this little dude in a turban, cause we used to rock turbans, doing kickflips over the pyramid and I was just so hyped on another dude wearing one. So I went and said what’s up to him and he remembered me from India, and so that’s how we reconnected, but only a little.
And how long after India was this contest?
This was maybe six or seven years after boarding school, but then a few more years later we started getting more skateparks built around Texas so there were more contests. We had one in Austin which he came to. It was him, Trace Saylor, Brian Bohtehlo, and Cody McEntire. That was their little youngster crew that would come from the outskirts and skate the contests and stuff. Thinking about it now that’s a pretty solid young skate rat crew. So then we’d skate around each other a bunch and just through skating we’ve just become close you know? And also through Sikhism.
Is that a big religion in Texas, or is it rare to find another Sikh around?
I mean my parents specifically moved to Austin to be the only Sikhs in the city so not really, no. There are more around these days but not many whatsoever.
So your name is pronounced different than it’s spelled right?
Yeah it’s pronounced
Dhrm
where the R is rolled all crazy, and then you gotta say the H too. They only put vowels in it to translate it to English.
So what’s yr favorite thing about Texas?
Man really just to be able to live my own lifestyle and do what I want to do whenever
I want. Like when I was living in New York I was always doing whatever was going on. Now what’s going on, is just what I want it to be, I guess. Also man I got my family here, and my dog, and my father passed away and my other siblings have family so I’m just trying to stay close you know?
Makes perfect sense. What do you do fr work?
I’m actually going to school right now, and I work at the community college as well. Right now I’m chilling cause it’s summer time so I don’t got no school, but that also means I don’t got no work! But I got some money saved up so I’m chilling.
What’re you going to school for?
I actually just finished a kinesiology degree cause I wanted to know what was up with my back and stuff, but to be honest now that I’ve been around all those people… I mean not to offend anyone, everyone can do their own thing, but they’re just not my kind of people. We’re skaters, we’re athletic, but we don’t need to wear sports clothes to prove we are, or to have an identity or something. So now I finished my degree and I’m taking a photography class haha. Cause I was mostly self taught. I just shot as a hobby, so I figured why not really learn this stuff. And if you don’t go to school for too long you have to start paying back your student loans.
So what happened to yr back?
It’s kind of a long story, but we used to jump BMX bikes as little kids and I almost died a few months before I hurt my back, and I was still only like fourteen at the time so I didn’t want to tell my mom I hurt myself again since I was just in the hospital. So it just kind of became a problem as I got older so then I’d be skating every day and I was the type of dude who was just skating as much as I could. Fucking energizer batteries, get some coffee or a cinnamon bun, anything that would keep me going. So I just wore my shit out, and what I learned in my class is that I was muscle guarding, which is just creating all these fucked up postures to try and protect injuries and shit. I hurt it really bad a bunch of times in a row about two years ago and so now I’ve just been really focused on healing and fixing it. And it’s been a real blessing to have this camera because I want to be in this shit you know? I’d go crazy if I didn’t have something to do. And I can still go hang out with my homies and be a part of the session too.
It’s funny you always hear filmers/photogs complain about having to lug around the backpack all the time, and rightfully so, but it seems you embrace it cause of yr injury.
Ha, yeah that is true. The only thing I hate about it now is after we’re done, we just got a photo or whatever, everyone just starts bouncing and it’s like, “Wait up, I’m still packing my shit!”
What makes a good ditch?
Ahh man, gotta have good hips. They just let you fly more.
What’s the best shop in Texas?
Oh that’s No Comply, no doubt.
Whats yr favorite place you been to on the East Coast?
Oh definitely the city dude. Skating New York is like… pfffff… yeah man. I was lucky enough to live there for five years so I got my fill. Just crushing through the streets. I mean SF is tight, but I’ve only visited, but there’s hills in New York too man! Like uptown, near Columbia, got some of the illest hills you’ll ever see.
I
f you had to go East or West from Texas for a year which would it be?
That’s a hard one but probably West, I been out East. I’d like to go to Yosemite for sure, cause I like to take photos outside of skating too, and it definitely looks beautiful up there.
Did you skate for anyone in NY?
Yeah I skated for Shut, 5boro asked me to ride for them a few times but I was riding for this little company out of Texas called Elysium. They actually wanted to turn me pro but I was like, “Nah,” no ones even heard of me yet I can’t just be that dude. So then I was getting boards from Zoo York and Rasa Libre. Apparently Darin Howard told me that I had just missed out getting on Rasa’s last am spot after sending them all my footage. You know who that spot was filled by? Fucking Dylan Rieder.
Whoa.
I was like, I’m good! Good choice! You know? It was crazy. But man back then I was just caught up with a bad girlfriend and I had some opportunities I just didn’t follow up with the right way. It just wasn’t meant to be and that’s fine, I know how shit goes. But I mean I had some good parts out there! I had first part in Lurkers 2, I’m super hyped to be a part of that. Sam Salganik, man the way that he made the video is just timeless. Lurker Lou, Ted Barrow, Jason Dill, Ian Reid, and Charles Lamb. That definitely was some of favorite skating during that time.
When was that? Mid 2000s?
Yeah that was probably 2003-2004, maybe a little later but who knows, I’m the worst with that shit. I can’t even remember I’m thirty six anymore, I’m like, “What? I’m not twenty eight!?”
Ha, how high do you think you can ollie?
Shit, right now I need a jump ramp man. But in my heyday, I don’t know set it up, I might be able to get over it, haha. I could get up with the best of em.
How high are you right now?
Haha! About as high as I used to be able to ollie. Nah, I’m just chilling right now laid back in the summertime. I guess I got a bit of a reputation…
Nothing wrong with that. So what do you want to be doing tomorrow?
I just want to be taking photos of people I appreciate and are inspired by. That’s how things go you get into something and you want to feel it and you want to know what it’s like. Cause for a long time I was skating and people were giving me stuff and I felt like what I was giving back was my skating. Now this photography thing is giving back to people in a whole new way and I’m stoked.

================================================================================

How did you get stated working with concrete?
Originally I was working for my uncle right out of high school I got a full time job with him just being a laborer. I was working on a crew that of concrete masons and I was basically like the laborer cleaning tools and shit. Just basically doing the grunt work, that was my first experience with it.
How did that turn into doing skateparks?
It’s one of those things where I had done it for a while and I fuckin seriously hated doing concrete work it’s miserable work but then at some point being a skate rat I was going to FDR a lot and I started realizing all the shit I was doing was fully applicable to skating and building. It had some kinda resonance with the shit that I was into. So that was kinda what sparked me. I was like ok, I can use this to my advantage.
What was the first project as far as making something to skate?
The mini ramp at my house was the first thing. We had a really bad flood at my house, we were homeless for a little bit, there ended up being a bunch of government money passed… This was like before Katrina and shit but we got my house raised with this government funding and I had like a 20ft ceiling basement. I was immediately like oh my god I’m building a mini ramp. That first building experience was one of those things where we’d have jam packed sessions all the time. That’s really what made me take an interested in it. You could see how hyped people would get especially people that never had access to a backyard ramp.
How did the Pops project come about?
This rec center lady just walked right into Exit one day and was like, How do we get a skatepark built? We just pretty much promised her the moon and the stars like, if you get us permission we’ll do it all. You don’t have to worry about a thing. But as we got into it, it turned into a lot more of a headache then we were making it out to be. But it came down to just one progressive person taking a step and going the one place in her community she thought she could get an answer, and that’s really how it snowballed.. We just got lucky with the funding I mean the 2 non profits, Kensington Development Corporation and Franklins Paine they were kinda like keeping the bully off our back, the city was asking questions they were like it’s ok everything is under control. But then when the city engineers finally came down on site they pretty much threw a shit fit, they were like about to shut us down. It was in the winter time so we weren’t pouring any concrete, the job site was kinda stagnant, we were just doing a little bit of steel work. But right at that point when we were gonna get a stop work order from the city we got the Tony Hawk grant, 10 grand from Tony Hawk is really good leverage. NKDC got that grant and went back to the city like tony hawk just gave us 10 thousand dollars to finish this project can you just stay off our back. I think they could realize that it was worth just turning an eye to it even though they knew as far as everything we were doing was just completely illegal as far a city construction.
Tell me about 5th pocket?
So basically after we got involved in doing Pops, we had these follow up meetings with parks and rec, and some of them funding non profits, and they seemed to be like, Hey this was really good, they were actually siked about it. Theres some things they weren’t siked on. It really came down to liability and insurance so they basically put it on the table like, start a company, get some insurance, and we’ll give it another shot. Try to like duplicate the process in some way. So I was like fuck it I had some money I’d saved and was ready to do something. Just completely on a total high from Pops, we didn’t even really have any idea what were doing until it was done and then that whole wash of positive shit was happening. I was like fuck it we got nothing to lose, start a company I wasn’t ever about like aw man, I got this business plan or some shit, it was like the city of Philadelphia was giving us this sliver of opportunity and I was like, “when am I gonna get a chance to do this again?”
What do you do to stay alive day to day?
Whatever I can. I’ve worked a lot of side jobs, bar tending definitely has helped. Triumph brewing company big shout out. They’ve like sustained my life for a really long time, and truthfully without that job I wouldn’t have had the opportunities I’ve had cause i would have been working some 9 to 5 shit but bar tending has been good to me.
What projects are currently keeping you up at night?
The cellar keeps me up at night cause its like ours, it’s a collective. It feels more personal, like we own it. But there’s a project that’s getting off the ground right now in Delaware and we’re building it at this church and the fundraising has gone really well, but there’s a lot of stuff going on with insurance and donated services that makes it kinda hectic, and honestly anything I know we’re going to build keeps me up. Basically just can’t stop thinking about how it could be better or the design could be better or how it could be the best it could be.
Do you sketch shit out / use the computer?
I only use computer design I’m a horrible hand drawn artist. Google sketch up it’s a free download, it’s what I got started on with Pops and as I’ve been learning the program, the program has only gotten better to the point where now like real architects use it it’s not just like a hobbyist thing like you can make blueprints with it, super complicated shapes, I mean i still got a lot to learn.
And you just taught yourself?
Kinda, my brother took some CAD classes and he knew the basics and once you know the basics its up to you to create the shapes, you know if you know they basics it all works you gotta just start doodling but the real weird shit is when you make the connecting between drawling it, imaging how its gonna ride, building it and then riding it and then being able to make those mental notes of all those things that were kinda like you thought they were gonna be or way far away from it and try to figure out and decipher what was right or wrong.
Who are some people usually out there with you making shit happen?
It’s almost like every projects tunes in on a different group of volunteers, just because a lot of the stuff we do isn’t under contract and its just to keep hype going and stay busy, but as far as when I need to line us a crew definitely TZ, Jason, Sloan’s fuckin made it out to some stuff where we drove off into no mans land. It’s a mixed batch.
Who are some of the godfathers of the trowel?
There’s like a billion, well theres not that many but I’d say just the originals that started the whole movement, so it’d be like Mark Hubbard? Mark Scott? The dude who owns Dreamland, dude who owns GrindLine and then like Tim Pain, from team pain, but theres like a million people carrying the torch now cause the knowledge is out it’s not just like a sacred few who know it there a lot of people out there who know the basics. TZ is a godfather if you ask me he’s the shit.
What’s the most difficult part of the process, red tape, framing, pouring, finishing?
Red tape is probably the most frustrating and difficult to get through but when it comes to like the installation, its hard to say, like working with the concrete material is like hard work but like framing and layout is way more mental like you gotta have your math right on a lot of that stuff when your doing the concrete it’s like all of your numbers are installed already and you just have to make the concrete match that but yea I’d say like layout, draining water, heights and elevations just the math can be tricky, so framing and forms I’d say are probably the most tedious.
What’s the biggest job you’ve ever done?
Sq footage wise probably Ambler. That’s the biggest sq footage we’ve done and it really isn’t that much it was like 7,000 sq feet. It’s funny that project was so budgeted, and I think it’s that big cause there’s a decent amount of flat in it, and we didn’t get the flat contract, that was some other goon, union guy.
Have you gotten any jobs that were too big?
Yea like I was saying they send out RFPs like once your listed as a vendor in this industry you get sent RFPs from all over the place. Like I got sent RFPs from rec centers all around the Midwest looking for like 10,000 sq foot parks, and as far as me as a company there’s no way I could really handle that. I wouldn’t even really be able to put together a proposal for something like that just cause I lack the administrative end of it you know? And I don’t have a bank that’s willing to bond me for like, say it’s a quarter million dollar job, they’re not gonna be like “this guy is good for it” cause truth is I’m not. I don’t have any money, I don’t have any equipment, I don’t have any trucks, we’re pretty budget you know what I mean.
What would you say are some of the biggest or most common mistakes people make with parks, or that happen?
That’s a good question. I guess it all depends on what you like, but I’d just say being unoriginal. Anything unoriginal or anything duplicated a bunch of times. I’m still like learning all the time. I don’t really know a ton in the grand scheme of things. I feel like I have a lot to learn but I look at parks and its like some of the stuff has not just been done but has been done so many times, I kinda think it doesn’t have to be the best park in the world it just has to be different. It doesn’t have to be some gnarly or the biggest ever or this or that it’s more just about it’s never been done before, something new.
What are you into outside of crete and skating?
I’m starting to really get into math in a weird way, just like ancient math, sounds kinda spacey and nerdy but yea definitely some quantum physics type stuff get me hyped I got this book that I’m reading right now and its like wheeew definitely like takes you on a trip and it’s funny cause skating kinda got me into it when we built the wooden bowl. the wooden stuff is crazy math and that got me just thinking in numbers, you know concrete is malleable you can mush it into a shape and be like yea that will skate you can visualize and see and change its shape. Where with wood it’s like you have to know exactly the equation to get the piece to the puzzle and that just sparked me to learn more math. And playing guitar. I play some guitar. I live in the sticks a little bit so I like to go fishing, shit like that; basic stuff. Traveling for sure, damn I wish I had some more money I’d be traveling all the time.
Any DIY projects you’d like to peep?
Pretty much every single one that Pontus and those dudes made, especially the really weird little bowls that they make, they make these weird little bowls, I don’t know its like street skating bowl everything is kinda weird and kinked or tight like really hard to navigate. That’s the shit that I like to skate There’s some dudes in Germany that built some really bizarre stuff, that park in Hanover I think they helped with that stuff that went on in India the HolyStoked Collective those dudes, I think the German dudes went down and helped with that and maybe some other dudes but there’s some European dudes that are doing some pretty rad shit but all the America DIY too. I just got to skate that spot in Seattle, Marginal Way, insane such a rad park, so much flow It’s like skate park quality installation not like some ratty foundation spot it was insane super professional as far as the shapes and the finish it was just totally sick but basically anything out there. any DIY spot I’d like to skate.
Favorite thing to build or include in a park?
Bank to curb. bank to ledge, yea I dig those, I have a lot of fun on those, but anything 3D. You know a lot of the stuff, like not to call em out or anything, but a lot of like California Skatepark stuff is like long linear stuff, flat, straight, not much of it is 3 dimensional. They’re like simple shapes You start to break into that third dimension and it just really opens up how you can skate it. I dig things that are changing the whole way not just one shape extruded like 60 feet just like a block, or like a long bank. which is cool like while I say that look at 7th street it’s just a long quarter pipe but I was just building what those dudes wanted to build down at Kinetic simple and straight forward, and it fit the space. but like yea I like shit that’s like crazy weird shapes that are like rolling and elevation change and shit like that.
Learning from your mistakes is the essence of this game. What is your biggest mistake that has lead to the biggest discovery?
There’s so many to chose from. I can’t really think of one specific, but definitely like nail it down in the design first, I feel like there’s a lot of trouble shooting that can be done before anything happens on site, cause once you’re on site everyone has an opinion that and just never be too sure of, not of yourself but always realize something can go wrong. be prepared for things to go wrong, not that you should plan on it, but be prepared for it cause shit can happen really quick. Concrete doesn’t wait you know, that shits going, like your on a clock, if something goes wrong you just gotta figure it out.
It must be fulfilling to watch homies skate shit you’ve built, can you think of any specific tricks or anything that’s gone down? Anything you’ve been hyped on?
Going to Pops is probably the most hype thing just cause a lot of those kids didn’t really know anything about a skateboard until the park opened so seeing how their skating is reflected by the park, that’s like all they knew of skating. Like you could say any name of any pro and they were clueless. They had no idea to the whole world of skating so seeing how they skate now is super sick, but yea I’d say people skating Pops gets me more hyped than anything. Watching Mitch skate Pops, Bill Sands, Dan Hetrich, and then the Ambler locals, whenever I go up there and watch those dudes skate it’s really sick. That dude Tore (Bevivino) is on a tear, and he owns that park, and it’s like custom made for him. probably the most rewarding stuff is seeing people like grow with in the park. I’d like to think some of the stuff we design is like easy for kids to progress on stuff that like gives them those little tiers to like work towards. It’s not all like, you gotta get gnarly right away. I’ve always been siked on how the kids learn especially at Pops.
To make a long story short what are some of the differences between working with wood and crete?
Wood is way more methodical, more calculated. You have to know every number cause with all those numbers you have to like formulate an equation to cut every little piece its crazy in depth. concrete is more like get your forms close, you know what the radiuses are so you just kinda mock it up then its way more a kinda visualizing it type of thing. With wood if your not crunching out numbers and long lists of equations you are not getting the right cut and the thing is not going to skate right, especially when your doing a round wall. its like two totally different animals wood is like slow and methodical concrete is like you do a beast ass hard days work and then you have this huge wall of concrete poured.
Shout out to those keeping it real.
Anyone who’s just really putting in work to what they want to see happen. People investing their time in things that they care about and just anyone taking a chance on it. Everybody who’s helped with any of our projects obviously, that goes without saying. Without all their help we wound’t be where we’re at. All the Skate Jawn homies.

================================================================================

Photos and interview by Joe Madrigal.
What have you been up to lately?
I’ve been making some music, making art, and skating for the most part.
I like pieces you’ve been putting on your IG. What would you say your sound is like?
I don’t know, I just make music because it’s something I’m interested in, art too. It’s something I think is cool and I want to experiment with just doing it. The same way with skating, I think it’s fun to experiment with.
Did you take any classes in school for music or art at all?
I took a photography class for digital cameras but I only had a film camera. My school had a darkroom though, so my teacher taught me one-on-one how to make prints.
That’s dope, I feel like that’s better than the digital class. Where did you go to school at?
In Edmund, Oklahoma. It’s basically Oklahoma City.
How was it growing up there?
It was weird. It was cool though, I had my group of friends and we’d always be skating and filming each other.
Have you lived anywhere else besides Oklahoma?
Yeah I lived with Chris (Athans) for a while in Texas, and then I moved to Austin for a year before I came here.
What made you want to move to SF?
I was supposed to be in SF before I moved to Austin but my plans fell through so I just stayed in Austin with this girl. I visited during that time because everyone had moved here from Texas. I missed everyone so much so it made the most sense to just move.
I feel that, I’m glad you live here now. Do you like it?
Yeah I do. It’s still weird for me, but I’m glad all my friends are here.
Who are some of your influences that inspire you?
I really like watching Josh McLaughlin skate and Eddy (Claire). Ed’s been influencing me a lot. Neil Blender too. But when I was younger I really liked he New Blood video, and obsessed over
Tincan Folklore
and
A Visual Sound
. Lee Yankou as well. Also it makes no sense, but at the time Ryan Sublette was my favorite skater.
That’s crazy cause that was my favorite skater back then as well. That
Boyish
part was one of my favorites.
Boyish
was my favorite part, the song and everything about that part was the best. The one with the Ryuichi Sakamoto track is amazing as well. I got really into that person because of that part. He’s still one of my favorite skaters.
Do you like his music as well?
I love his music, I loved everything about him. Jake Johnson and Rob Dyrdek in
Memory Screen
, I really liked that too. Learning about Dinosaur Jr. and all that stuff made me want to make music and videos. I really liked
Let’s Live
, and Pyramid Country videos as well. Oh, and Matt King! Bro I was so into that shit,
Hoephase
was the one that made me want to get a camera and start making videos. I related to those videos,
Nagajoose
and
Giant Spider
, they made sense to me.
Have you been filming a lot lately?
I’ve been filming with phones and stuff. That question is weird because we always film, but I wish all of it could go together. I feel like you can film anything with whatever you got and make it look good. But I’ve been filming with Eddy lately for the most part.
Is the phone the main camera of choice right now?
I strategically use my phone, it’s a $30 phone. I think it looks cool, it has an aesthetic to it. Just like a VHS or a VX, they have a look to them. It’s not super clear like an iPhone, it’s a little jagged, but I like it.
Do you feel like if someone was recording you on your phone skating, that would be the best was to portray yourself?
I think the best was to portray someone is if you have a vision for it, like Zach Chamberlin. You tell him what you’re going to do and he already has an idea of how it’s going to look, he’s very calculated. Or like how you shoot photos. you see a trick and then you get a vision of how you’re going to capture it. Anyone that has that vision is going to be the best portraying someone.
Any obligatory shout outs?
Shout out to you, Monster energy, Alex G, and whoever shot the photos for the interview with you. Thanks!

================================================================================

Jacob Folsom-Fraster moved from Boston to the Central Massachusetts cosmopolis of Worcester in 2013. Nearly a decade later, he’s at the helm of both a community nonprofit and a DIY building effort that have together transformed the city’s skate scene. I called Jacob up to ask about the Sharkside experience, Push Worcester, and the state of DIY amid rapid development.
Interview by Max Harrison-Caldwell
What’s Sharkside? I thought Worcide was the DIY in Worcester?
Worcide was sick, but it was gnarly transition, and for the average street skater it was tough to skate. Sharkside came about because some friends and I wanted one perfect ledge, and since Worcide was around since 2007, we figured we could get away with another DIY.
I thought I saw Sharkside get demolished last year?
Every fall the landowner would send landscapers to destroy all the trees and do a sweep of the encampments and people living down there. One time, the landscapers said they were told not to destroy the skate stuff because the owner had seen younger kids down there riding bikes and skating and she thought it was cool. Then, last fall, they did their sweep and also took out as many obstacles as they could. They couldn’t do the whole pyramid, they couldn’t do the small quarterpipe, and a few weeks later there was already another pallet house built so we were just like cool, let’s rebuild the ledge. Maybe we get another few weeks out of it, maybe we get another four years. Who knows.
I noticed in the video that in addition to skating, live music, and kids painting the ramps, you also had clips of the people living at the spot. What’s the relationship between the skaters and the unhoused community there?
There used to be a lot more trees and a lot more people living in the kind of mini-forest that was there. The first guy we met, his name was Shadow, and he called it the Beaver Brook Brotherhood — there would sometimes be 20, 30 people living out there. Most people we interacted with were always cool. They would help us sweep up the spot and we would give them extra pallets to build huts. But they would get kicked out once, sometimes twice a year, so the number of people was always fluctuating.
We got pretty close with some of the guys. It was their spot before it was ours and we wanted to respect that. That first summer we even planted some tomatoes, kale, basil, and strawberries.
One of the original builders, this older guy who spent some time living on the streets himself and is now a full fledged urban farmer, had the idea of the “edible skate spot,” combining the DIY spot with some guerrilla gardening and a communal approach to sharing space.
Is Sharkside more of a hub than the old Worcester skatepark, Green Hill?
Yeah, I think so, at least for street skaters. There’s a good amount of people who go there regularly, but [Green Hill] is basically two big bowls, and it’s pretty old so there are some bad cracks. We’re about to get a new skatepark, though, because after Worcide was destroyed, the Worcide guys worked with the city to get a legit park built. That’s supposed to open in August.
Does the new park make you worried about the future of Sharkside?
Yeah, there’s definitely part of me that is. Even with street spots too — Worcester has a small downtown with a bunch of spots packed together, you already get kicked out of most of them, and I think that’s going to get a little worse. I’m sure it (the new park) will be used against us in some way.
You were involved in running a co-op skateshop a few years back. Tell me about how that turned into your nonprofit,
Push Worcester?
When I got back from the first Pushing Boarders conference in 2018, my roommate Andrew and I were thinking about how to organize the Worcester skate community and do something for the scene. I worked in youth programs with high schoolers and middle schoolers, and we started trying to bring skateboarding to these community events and have skate jams.
We were collecting used boards to give out to kids, and we ended up running a summer camp program and setting up a tiny skate shop with used hard goods — Worcester Community Skateshop — in the back of our friend’s bike shop, this little closet. Kids would come in and trade their Target boards for a used setup and that turned into a little community hub. We’d hang out there and then go skate at Sharkside. Then COVID happened so we shut down the shop and shifted our energy to building at Sharkside, and then a lot more people started coming.
We relaunched as
Push Worcester
, but instead of having a physical shop, we are just focusing on the community programming and collecting boards to redistribute. I quit my full time job last fall to really focus on growing the organization. We’re setting up donation bins around the city where kids can pick up boards, we still do skate jams at different block parties and events, and we have our annual summer camp program. This winter we hosted a pop-up indoor skatepark in an art gallery, and right now we’re just wrapping up our first DIY Skate and Paint program — we have a group of kids we’ve been doing art with at a local graffiti shop and skating with at Green Hill over the past 2 months.
It’s interesting that you’re promoting skating in a more official way through Push Worcester and also as a guerrilla builder at the DIY. What are some of the pros and cons of each approach?
There’s something about the DIY that cannot be replicated anywhere else. I grew up at Eggs, skating in Boston, and it was this plaza where everyone was always there and everyone took care of the spot. That’s something I felt I was missing in Worcester. So how I think about it is we made this plaza where the skate scene can come together and get more activated. The feeling a kid gets from working on a bank with us and then actually skating that bank is the most special part, and something that’s hard to replicate in a formal program.
At the same time, through Push Worcester we can connect with a lot of people who aren’t part of the skate scene or maybe aren’t comfortable jumping right into coming to Sharkside. For people that have been traditionally marginalized in skateboarding, or people who are just new and intimidated, I think Push Worcester can be more approachable and hopefully, through that, we can also welcome them to Sharkside.
The other important pro to Push Worcester is that we can get funding and we can pay leaders in our community to be organizers, skate instructors, and mentors. Sharkside is important for the soul of our scene, but with Push we can support young skaters to get something on their resume, get some hands on leadership training, and practice community organizing — all around skating, something they already love.
I hope we can show our community that just like we can build our own spots to skate, we can shape the alternative places for learning, relating, and engaging in political action that I think we need just as bad as we need a good ledge.
Some DIYs have reputations for being gnarly, both physically and socially, but Sharkside seems to be pretty welcoming to everyone. How do you foster that environment?
People are tapping boards for everyone, no matter what tricks they’re doing. People are hanging out, laughing, talking, and I think there’s generally an encouraging atmosphere. We wanted to make a DIY that was more like a multi-use community plaza.
Worcester is the second biggest city in New England and it’s an extremely diverse city, so a broad range of people come through. I think what matters most is how much time you spend there. There’s a pride that comes with spot stewardship, and a type of bond that is built by being at the same place day after day. I can think of a few people who don’t even skate but who put in more hours landscaping and building than most of the skaters.
That really comes through in the video. Not only are people tapping boards for kids who are learning, but those kids are also getting three-minute sections in the full-length. Not to mention the people on roller skates!
Yeah. I always have the VX there, and I wanted to make a video that had all the locals doing their thing. Growing up, video premieres were my favorite, and seeing people I knew — and the few times I saw myself on the big screen — was very meaningful. So I wanted the video to show the full Sharkside experience and all the people who call the place home. I wanted it to be a portal into that world, a time capsule in a way, with everyone who brought the place to life getting their shine.
What are your hopes for the future of the Worcester skate scene?
I mean, I know that the new skatepark is going to bring a ton more people to Worcester, so I’m glad that we’ve had this time with Sharkside where the skate scene could come together. I hope we get some more time to rebuild Sharkside, but more importantly that the next generation has been bitten by the DIY bug, and wants to carry on Worcester’s unsanctioned spot building traditions. Overall I hope the scene continues to grow, I hope new places to skate keep popping up whether they be skateparks, DIYs, or street spots, and I hope we can continue finding ways to welcome new people into the community, while pushing Worcester to become a more skateable city.
Any shoutouts?
Mad love to all my beavers! Shout out to everyone who spent time skating, working, and sitting around at Sharkside. We wouldn’t have tried without Worcide DIY, thanks for showing us the way. Big thanks to Artifakt Supply, Orchard Skateshop, Eastern Boarder, Worcester Roots Project, The Greater Worcester Community Foundation, the Worcester Arts Council, The Massachusetts Cultural Council, and the United Way of Central MA for investing in Push Worcester and making it possible for us to create meaningful opportunities for youth development and youth leadership through skateboarding. Thank you Steve and Kev, the RAW New England family, and all my older siblings and mentors from the Boston skate community. Finally, thank you Hallie B, my fam, and all my friends for the love and support! Peace!
Editors Note:
Last night I received an email from Jacob letting me know that more demolition had gone down at Sharkside the night before this post went live.
“They toppled over our rebuilt ledge, some other wooden stuff, and seemed to try to start chopping up the pyramid. In a way it’s kinda perfect that it happened the night before the video is going live on the internet.” -Jacob Folsom-Fraster
I doubt this will be the last we hear of Sharkside, so follow
@beaverbrookdiy
and go check this city out when you can, and bring some donations for
Push Worcester
while you’re at it.

================================================================================

Photographer Interview by Marcus Waldron and Noah Halpern-McManus
MW: So we’re from basically the same area, can you describe the town in skateboarding terms?
We’re from central motherfucking Jersey. The epicenter of East Coast crust. Right outside of Trenton, an hour from Philly, and two from New York. A dope spot to come up skateboarding for sure.
MW: If someone was to ask you pros from the area, who comes to m
ind?
Fucking Uncle Freddy man. First and foremost. That’s definitely the dude that I can remember seeing clips of and being stoked on from the beginning. He’s just always been out there ripping. When you think Trenton you think of James Pitonyak for sure. Also Ishod, from the next town over. It’s so sick to see dudes like that, that have been hometown heroes, and now are just killing it. Onward and upward the whole fucking time.
MW: When did you start going out to New York and Philly from where we gr
ew up?
Fuck New York. (Everyone laughs) But I mean from the beginning we were a couple minutes from the bus stop, and few minutes from the train. So by the time we were thirteen or fourteen it was like, “alright what are we doing this weekend?” We’d either hop on the bus and go to downtown Trenton, or hop on the train to downtown Philly. Skip fares, skate all day, just getting in the streets man.
N: How often did you skate Love when you were a teenager?
Honestly we didn’t skate Love all that much because City Hall was so fucking sick. The only reason we’d go across the street was when we’d get kicked out.
N: When did you start taking pictures?
Fuck, almost exactly the same time I started skating. I don’t know how long it was from when I stepped on a board to when I found out you could actually flip that shit and do things with it, you know? Watching people kickflip, or hit jump ramps was really what got me into shooting photos because of how this shit looks. I was able to see my homies doing it, but I wanted to see how I looked. So here’s the point and shoot, you take a photo of me, I’ll take a photo of you, then just drop that roll off at CVS and get the prints back with doubles to give to the homies. So that’s what got me into taking pictures, but I probably didn’t shoot a good skate photo for another decade or something.
MW: But you just kept shooting and got better eventually?
Yeah I mean point and shoot shit, drop it off at the drugstore, it wasn’t even like really trying to make a good photo, it was more just fucking around, and always having a camera around. I think probably the first photo I shot was on the homie Darin’s rig. He had a Sony that shot to minidisc as it’s storage media, and he had a fisheye electrical taped to the front of it, literally. I shot a photo of the homie Chris Davis and Dean Innocenzi, tre flip on the Trenton banks from up top and it was just the one that struck me, like “this is a different way than I’m used to looking at skating.” Just a different angle and shit, kind of making a photo, and that was just the spark to try and make another one. So I just kept hitting the button and trying to make ‘em better.
N: So you’re saying this Chris Davis photo is the first skate photo you really took?
First photo that I tried to make.
MW: How long ago did you start getting in the darkroom?
That was early 2000’s, so probably close to twenty years now. I got to the point where I had taken the same classes multiple times with the same instructor, because it wasn’t like I was learning the same thing over and over again, I was just getting more experience with the thing. So Mercer County Community College had a good relationship with the University of Arts here in Philadelphia so all my credits transferred no bullshit. So then I did two years at UArts to complete my BFA in photo. While I was there one of my instructors kinda saw the aesthetic that my photography was going for and she told me to check out Peter’s Valley Craft School, which is out in North Jersey. They had an assistance program that I got on and I was just the darkroom assistant, extra hands for the teachers while they do the teaching, but I was also a student at the same time. So that’s where I learned the real hands on type of photos, where it’s not just black and white darkroom. The tintypes, platinum palladium printing, cyanotypes, salt printing, that type of stuff I learned there.
N: What are tintypes exactly?
They’re like 19th century Polaroids. You know when you have a Polaroid camera it spits out the photo and you gotta shake it a little bit? Tintype is kinda the same way except you’re making the thing from start to finish, you don’t just have a cartridge. The images that come out are in-camera positives, and they’re one of a kind. The object itself is probably the most archival form of photography because it gets a varnish over top that seals it and there’s no paper support to deteriorate because it’s on metal. It’s made up of just silver and cotton. So the ones from the Civil War that they did still look just like the ones that I make today. The images basically don’t age. I still use the same recipe they did in the Civil War, all the same chemistry and it’s like making a photograph by hand, one at a time.
N: Tell me about the Halide Project.
The Halide Project is a 501c3 non-profit and I’m one of the board members. We’re an all volunteer board, at this point nobody gets paid and we do everything. So again, it’s all for the love and all for the community, which is what it always should be about. We started out as a wannabe gallery, doing pop up shows at different places around our neighborhood and then eventually we got our own space in Kensington and the first thing we did was make one half the space into a gallery so we could continue having shows. At this point we’re the only gallery in Philadelphia that strictly shows handmade photography, but probably one of the few in the whole country, which is pretty rad. Our whole thing is to educate, promote, and break down doors for those types of photos. So we continued our gallery programming while we were fundraising to build a darkroom. It took about two years to make that happen, but now it’s fully open and people can come in to develop their own film, get in the black and white darkroom, or get into the 19th century darkroom to do more of that printmaking stuff. We also have workshops where people can come in and learn new processes. We’re just trying to foster a photo community in that space.
MW: So you’ve been around since the start of the magazine, what were the best and worst apartments you’ve seen me live in over the years?
Oh fuck. I mean the warehouse was obviously the sickest, but Jefferson street. was a close second. I don’t know anyone who’s going to upvote Piss Palace at all. Spring Garden was fun though too! The warehouse could also be the answer to both questions.
MW: So that kind of overlaps with the filming of Bruns and skating with Kevin Winters every weekend. What do you remember about the Bruns days?
Man, it was just nonstop pretty much. Every time we were out skating, Kev was there and it was always just “Kev, where the spots at?”
N: Now you’re out in the streets with a whole new crew of people that have moved to Philly. How is it skating with all the brokebois and them?
I mean the last days (of Love Park) were a turning point, a straw that broke the camel’s back sorta shit. After Love was done a lot of people were done with Philly. Whether that was the specific reason or not, there was just a general decline in the scene a little bit. A lot of people moved up to New York and that shit popped off. Meanwhile I had already put down some deep roots here in Philly. East Coast is all tight enough that if I want to skate with the homies I can. But I ended up linking with the younger cats coming through and those dudes are so fucking great to skate with. They’re all the best homies. That’s the reason I go out. I’m never trying to make that shit a job. I’m never trying to have a quota to meet, or deadlines, fuck that. But when the homies got some shit that’s going down I feel blessed to get the phone call. You want me to be out there when you’re putting it on the line? I’m hyped, let’s go.
MW: You also seem to love anything DIY. Why do you think it’s important to know how to do things for yourself?
Dude, it’s so fucking hard to find somebody to do something for you the right way and care about it half as much as you do. That’s the biggest thing for me, like who the fuck else is going to care about this thing that I need more than me? Let me figure out how to do that shit, and how I want it done, that’s never gonna be a loss. Just something to add to the bag of tricks.
MW: You’ve been friends with Sloan for a long time, you ever help 5th Pocket on any projects?
For sure, I mean I’m happy to be on the B squad whenever they need anything. Definitely worked on some fun projects with them over the years. I poured my first bags with Sloan in Ewing at that old skate ditch with the barrier. I definitely remember being really fucking stoked on that. Not that it was some crazy DIY spot or whatever, but in our town that spot had a ton of history. Anybody that skated in that town knew about the drainage ditch, that was the degenerate skate rat hang out spot. And we were stoked cause we were able to make it a little bigger and a little faster and a lot more fun.
MW: Aight, I gotta go back to this whole “fuck New York” thing. This is an OG question anyway. Why is Philly better than New York?
It’s just so much fucking easier! That’s all it is. It’s so much simpler to navigate and maybe there’s not as much cool shit quantity-wise, but compared to the amount of bullshit you have to deal with to do what you’re trying to do, it’s more chill. It’s just not as overrun and blown the fuck out. I’m a simple man, I got what I need.
MW: Most stairs you ever ollied?
I used to like to jump. I think at least 13.
MW: Which 13?!
I mean Trenton I did the 12. James used to skate that fucking thing, we’d just jump down it. The 9 to the 12 there, that’s just classic.
N: Alright what’s something you’d like to see more of in the world? Or less of?
Easy answer to both of those. More community, less cops.
MW: Aight anyone you trying to thank or shout out?
I mean, thank you two dudes the most forever. Keeping this fucking Skate Jawn thing going is just the sickest, most important thing for so many reasons. So primarily thank y’all. Thanks to everyone else that contributes and makes it happen because it’s fucking everybody. Shoutout the whole world, minus all the racists, cops, and other such dickheads.

================================================================================

Where are you from?
I’m from Steubenville, Ohio.
Do you still live out there?
Nah, moved to Charlotte, NC about two and a half years ago.
How long have you been skating?
Since I was 10! So 8 years.
What was the last video, or anything, that got you hyped to skate?
Watching Colin Provost or Grant Taylor always gets me hyped! And being out with the homies definitely gets me hyped to shred.
What do you think of all the longboarders and snakeboarders and shit?
I think they’re all wack! If you’re gonna ride a board, ride a skateboard. Only cuz you know all those long boarders are just doin it for “the look” ha.
You go to a lot of parties in high school?
Went to some but the transition from one school to another was kinda weird so I wasn’t a huge partier.
Did skateboarding help, or make it harder, moving to a new place?
Made it easier for sure! Because right off the bat the kids who skated were the homies, and still are. I don’t even see anyone else from high school.
What’s yr dream job?
Of course, professional skater.
What would be yr dream roadtrip?
A van packed with all the homies going cross country and ending up in Portland.
Do you travel much?
Me and some friends will usually go somewhere every other week but only places like 3-4 hours away.
Where are some good places to go by you?
We go to Raleigh, Columbia, SC, Atlanta and just some like neighboring cities.
Worst habit?
Smoking cigs.
Do you have anyone’s autograph?
Yea I have the whole 1031 teams autographs, they came to this park on my birthday. I was so hyped. And I skated in street league and have all of those dudes John Hancock’s.
How was skating in street league?
It was really different, like way too many people watching you, I got real nervous.
How’d you do?
I got 4th ha, but there was only 6 people in it.
How’d you end up doing that?
Through Woodward! They have two contests and then top 3 go to street league.
Who’s one skater you wish put out skating (photos/video)?
I always loved Tosh Townsend, I think it’d be sick to see a part from him.
Last time someone flipped you off?
The first time I went driving by myself, no license or anything. I just cut off some dude so badly he gave me the birdie.
Shortest job you’ve ever had?
Worked at a place where I would film professors talk about random shit. I worked there for like two weeks.
Then quit?
Yea basically. I left for Woodward and didn’t tell them.

================================================================================

Interview and photos by Ben Hull.
Where you at right now?
Tampa, Florida.
You’re from Brazil?
I was born in Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Any big differences moving from Brazil to the USA?
For me it was a big culture change, I spoke no English at the time. But everyone was really nice to me which made me want to be around more and try my best to adapt.
What brought you to Philly?
Initially, I didn’t know I was coming to Philly. Things happened so fast. One day my family decided they wanted to move to the US. Of course, I was really happy about it, but at first I didn’t really believe them. And then the next thing you know we’re here. They had a couple of friends in Northeast Philly so that’s where we moved.
How did you learn English?
I tried a bunch of different things, movies, online classes, apps. Mostly going to spots and meeting with people. At first, it was very uncomfortable for me but I met ome good people in my circle that always looked out.
Ever read skate magazines to help?
Oh, I tried! At first, I could not understand a thing as you can imagine. But little by little, always staying consistent, I got there. Working on reading and writing helped me big time.
What’s your skate set up at the moment?
Board: Theories Brand – 8.25. Trucks: Independent – 149. Wheels: Dialtone 52. Bearings: Bones.
How did we meet?
When I moved to Philadelphia in 2015 I kept coming to the city. Then one day Nick Bradian approached me and asked who I was. I started hanging out with you guys and immediately shooting photos.
What kind of stuff do you like to skate?
Honestly, I will skate anything. Gaps, rails, stairs, bowls, but there’s nothing like a good city ledge.
How’s a skate park ledge different than a city ledge?
Technically they’re not different but depending on which city you’re from, there’s always a cool history behind the main spot in town. Sao Paulo has Vale do Anhangabau, Philly had Love Park and now Muni.
What do you do when you’re not skating?
When I’m not skating I like to exercise, eat healthy, travel, snowboard, and do things that you don’t normally do when you’re only focused on skating. I’m also a Fine Paints of Europe certified painter. When I’m not skating I’m usually working on a cool painting project in Pennsylvania or Florida. I really like anything that involves working with my hands. Seeing the results of your hard work is very satisfying. I also love anything that involves traveling to new places.
Who are some of the Brazilian and American skaters that inspire you the most?
Brazilians definitely Rodrigo TX, Adelmo Jr., Alex Carolino, Tiago Lemos. Americans, so many good ones. Joey O’Brien, Jahmir Brown, Kevin Bilyeu, Kevin Liedtke, Dylan Sourbeer, John Shanahan, Tom Asta.
What happened to your knee?
In 2019 I was filming with a buddy of mine in Myrtle Beach, I ended up getting hurt on an out rail. ACL, MCL, and meniscus tear. It was a major setback for me at the time because since the age of 10 I’ve been chasing the skate dream.
How has recovery been?
It’s been a couple of years now since it happened, I have not been able to get surgery yet just because you know, life happens, and it’d cost me close to $40k to get my knee repaired. But I try to keep a positive mindset and not let it stop me from having a good time with the homies.
Can you skate at all right now? Are you trying to get money for surgery?
Define
skate
. I can do very low-impact stuff. I definitely can’t skate like I used to. As far as raising money goes, I tried. I was scheduled for surgery in early 2020 but ended up losing that opportunity when Covid hit and elective surgeries were canceled. My girl started a Gofundme but it raised $0 so I just gave up on it.
Do you ever go back to Brazil? If so, what do you do there?
I have not, but when I do, I’m definitely going to check out Rio de Janeiro, the new Vale de Anhangabau which was torn down and rebuilt. Maybe see some of the northern parts of Brazil that are really beautiful.
Are there any rules in skating?
I don’t think skateboarding has rules. It’s a form of artistic expression. It’s up to each individual what they want to do with their talents.
Do you have any goals for 2022?
Wow, that’s a big one! I’d love to be fully back on my board. But I’m still trying to figure out how I’m going to make that happen.
Special shout outs?
Just want to thank everyone that always believed in me, filmers, photographers, and the homies in Philadelphia. Also, shout out to my people in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Special thanks to Ben Hull, Ricardo Napoli, Andrew Meyer, Ashlin Horsley, Miles Ard, tim Rodriguez, and the mock crew, Giovani Ricardo and Luke Dough.

================================================================================

Words by Zach Moeller and Tom Alexander
TA:
Why is this interview starting at 11 pm?
OB: Because today I had my library event, I shot a photo with Atem, and then it started to rain. So I went home, passed out, and took a nap around 5ish. I woke up to four missed calls at 10.
ZM:
Generic shit first: Where are you from, and how did skating first come into the picture?
OB: Iʼm from a town an hour north of NYC, a place called Cornwall. I started skating because not a lot was going on in my hometown, and I remember biking around and always seeing this group of older guys skating and thinking it was really cool. I was probably 11. I wanted to skateboard, but all of my peers were into longboarding, which I thought was really wack. So I started hanging out and skating with those older dudes.
ZM:
And what about photography?
OB: I had been skating for about a year or two. This is around 2011, 2012, right when Tumblr is popping off. So I have this Tumblr account and Iʼm following a few pages that would post skate scans and old skate photography, and through that I got into blogs like The Chromeball Incident, Science Versus Life, and others that posted photography from the ʻ90s and early 2000s. I was always stoked on photos like that – thereʼs just a certain crunchiness to those old photos. Modern photos I was seeing at that point were still cool, but they lacked a certain quality that photos back then had. So I decided I wanted to start shooting with film, and sometime around 2014 I bought my first point and shoot camera.
ZM:
Do you remember what type of camera that was?
OB: I do, it was an Olympus Trip 35. Itʼs a really cool camera because itʼs solar powered. It has all these cells and a panel around the lens. I started taking Metro North down into the city and would just walk around and take photos. Looking back, it was obviously little kid photos, just shooting everything. I was so hyped on it. But over time, especially after moving to DC, I really narrowed it down to taking skate photos. Iʼm actually trying to get back into taking photos of everything.
ZM:
Want to talk about the library event from today and what you were doing there?
OB: My day job is working for the Smithsonian where I digitize general collection and archival materials for this thing called the Biodiversity Heritage Library. I sit at a scanner and scan old books and archival materials. I realized that you can do the same thing with skateboarding – you have folks like Science Versus Life and Look Back Library doing great work to preserve skate history. I took what Iʼve learned from my day job and thought about how I can apply it to my role in skateboarding. So today I worked with the DC Public Library and put on a workshop to teach people how to digitize DV tapes or skate photographs, anything on film. DC has more than 40 years of really amazing skate history that deserves to be preserved.
ZM:
What brought you to DC originally?
OB: After high school, I went to SUNY college in Brockport, right outside of Rochester. During my
sophomore year, SUNY had this internship program in DC, which I applied for and got. I took an unpaid internship at a Naval Archive in the Washington Naval Yard. So itʼs 2018 and I get here, and instead of doing the stereotypical intern networking in DC, I decide I just want to skate the plaza and be as open to conversation as I can be with anybody there.
ZM:
I’m sure you were already hip to DC’s skate legacy at this point?
OB: Yes, I had read up on as much of DCʼs skate history as I could. I remember reading Smallsʼs
Quartersnacks interview, which looks at the etiquette of skating the plaza. You have to know the etiquette and respect the locals. You donʼt want to be a kook. I also was a huge fan of Reese Forbes, to the point where the Talking Heads song from his part in Eastern Exposure 3 is burnt into my consciousness. Anyway, after skating plaza for a couple of weeks, the first people I ended up meeting there were Smalls and Classic Chris. They told me what was good with plaza and helped me come out of my shell when it came to meeting people.
TA:
Before you came to DC you lived in a hockey house in upstate NY, right? Was that anything like living in a skate house?
OB: Before skateboarding, my identity was really wrapped up in hockey. When I lived in Brockport I played for the club team there, and during that time I lived in a hockey house, pretty much a glorified frat house. It was insane. Our house was right across the street from one of two bars in town. Weʼd sit in our driveway and watch drunk college kids fight. There was always so much insanity happening, completely nuts. To answer your question, skaters kind of act the same way living together. I donʼt want to say things get out of control, but it can definitely get pushed that way. Hockey players also smoke an insane amount of weed. Skaters who think they smoke a lot of weed have nothing on hockey players.
ZM:
You’ve mentioned you started to really focus on taking skate photography seriously after getting to DC. Was it the city, the crew, or a mixture of both that led to that?
OB: A lot of my outlook with photography is owed to Nnamdi and how seriously he takes filming and his dedication to making sure his videos look really good. A lot of those ethics I took and applied to my photos. Itʼs something you hone over time. I really wanted to be productive while also capturing skating in a very specific way. I was really influenced by Ryan Geeʼs photos, and wanted mine to look similar. When I first got here I was shooting on my dadʼs Penta SP1000, with this Russian bayonet mounted fisheye. I was learning and making mistakes shooting on film, just having fun skating with my friends.
ZM:
What’s up with that Russian fisheye?
OB: It was an M42 mount that screwed on. Itʼs the cheapest fishey you can get. I learned on Skate Perception that 16mm fisheye is the standard for shooting 35mm, so it worked. The first one I got I won off of a Goodwill auction.
ZM:
What’s your setup these days?
OB: I use a Nikon F4. Itʼs a camera that came out in 1989. It has all the knobs and whistles of a traditional film camera. I now use a Nikon F mount 16mm fisheye, which similarly to my first fisheye, is also Russian. I also have a 26-85mm long lens as well. Oh yeah, and canʼt forget the Sekonic light meter I use.
TA:
Walk us through your shooting process from start to finish.
OB: I normally get a specific idea in my head, whether itʼs thinking of a spot or a skater. Iʼll use the example of what I shot today; there is this photo of Jahmal Williams doing a back tail on a bench at a T stop in Boston. Itʼs clearly in the T station, itʼs shot from down low, and just everything about it is sick. So today Iʼm skating with Nnamdi and my friend Atem and it starts raining, so we decide to go skate down in the Metro. I reference that photo in my head, which is the first step. The second step is convincing the skater to try what I have in mind. Sometimes itʼs really hard to convince someone to do something. Once theyʼre convinced, the first thing Iʼm doing is taking a light reading. I set my flashes up and start thinking about how I can use the light. I donʼt have tripods so I normally have to improvise. Then I find my angle sometimes laying out flat to make the spot look bigger, and after that itʼs just about adapting in real time. Sometimes you need to adjust each try. Usually Nnamdi is filming the trick as well, so we work as a team and communicate where weʼre at so we donʼt get into each otherʼs way. Itʼs pretty sick because when the video drops and you see the flash in the clip, you know that the photo is the make. Iʼm trying to be genuine with it.
ZM:
You mentioned Ryan Gee earlier, but what other photographers are you drawing inspiration from?
OB: I have to say, my friends. Kevin Horn out on the West Coast, heʼs a great photographer. Matt Maydoney in Boston. Derrick Lambertz out in Iowa. A lot of my influences come from classic photographers, like Reda, Wig Worland, or anyone involved in early British skate mags like Sidewalk. From a non-skating perspective, I really like my friend KJ Thomasʼs eye for shooting. The way he shoots street photography is amazing.
TA:
Tell us about the book you’re working on.
OB: I started coming to DC in 2018 to visit and moved here right before COVID hit. So itʼs been about six or seven years that Iʼve been hanging down here with the people I skate with. The book is pretty much a collection of my favorite photos Iʼve shot in those years in one format. As a photographer I think itʼs important to put out a book or zines, anything in print. Over time my photos have gotten better and the skaters around me have been getting better too. Iʼve met more people with different types of styles, and I think that the newer scene in DC should be highlighted. My book will be photos that reflect that. Itʼs being published by Shining Life Press in DC, a great group of guys who publish a lot of DIY punk music stuff. I still think itʼs wild they want to do a book with me.
ZM:
Why do you prefer shooting film over digital?
OB: With film there is more of a reward. When you develop it and you see that youʼve manipulated light just enough to nail a shot, there is nothing like it. It feels like learning a new trick. I really donʼt have much experience with digital anyway. I learned on film, and through making mistakes I figured it out over time. Those old photos that inspire me have a unique characteristic that a lot of digital photos just donʼt have. That could just be me though, there are so many photographers who shoot digital that are killing it.
ZM:
How did you find out your photo of Rashad ended up as the cover of issue 72?
OB: I was working two jobs at the time, and I was in between shifts and saw the IG post. It took a second to register. At first I was like, “Wait a minute, thatʼs Rashad. Wait a minute, I shot that!” Shooting with Rashad is awesome. That whole experience just made me appreciate skating with my friends so much more. It was definitely an honor to make the cover.
TA:
What’s something you want to see more of in skating?
ZM:
And something you want to see less of?
OB: Might be controversial, but I am not a fan of hippy jumps. Just ollie the damn thing. Especially for photos, ollies just look so much better.
ZM:
So more ollies, less hippy jumps is what I’m hearing?
OB: Exactly. Wallies are cool, wallrides are cool, so much is cool. But I see hippy jumps and just think,
“nah.”
ZM:
Where can people see your work?
OB: In this day and age Instagram is the best way to share photos, so my IG page. But this is also why Iʼm making my book. I want to make my photos available physically, somewhere you can see them in a bigger format. Photos look so much cooler when theyʼre not on a screen.
TA:
I was told that when you were young you were forced to dress up in a caterpillar costume that changed into a butterfly and you hated it so much that you cried. Do you not like butterflies? Or do you just hate personal growth?
OB: To this day I am not a ceremonial person. I get so into my own head when I have to go to any type of function. Wow, this is from preschool – did you talk to my mom? Anyway, it was this ceremony where you had to be a caterpillar and turn int a butterfly. I thought that was the corniest shit. Iʼm literally on the stage crying, just thinking itʼs so dumb. Even as a kid I knew that was so stupid.
ZM:
Anyone you want to thank or shout out?
OB: Iʼm very grateful for my friends. I wouldnʼt be where I am without them. I want to say thank you to my mom and dad, and my brothers. Nnamdi, Tom, and Elijah, among many other good friends, for straight up convincing me to live in DC. Brian and Crushed Skateshop for all they do. Anyone who has used a camera at the plaza before me, especially Smalls. All skate shops in Upstate New York, much love to Pastime and Seasons. All my friends back in the 845, especially Alex Kosik for showing me early on how to be intentional with photography and design. Famous Marylander John John Rosemond and all the Baltimore brodies of course. Zane Grant for keeping my camera working. Maen Hammad for showing me how important photography can be. John, Zack, and Ambrose at Shining Life Press. Zach Moeller and the rest of Skate Jawn for letting me spew. Finally, thank you to anyone whoʼs ever let me point a camera at them!

================================================================================

Interview with Chris Mulhern by Marcus Waldron
What’s up? Where are you right now?
We’re skating at the art museum, up top with the flat gaps and the little fountains.
Nice, not at Muni today
?
Nah, finally somewhere else. But yeah, most of the time we spent filming there just cause I think that’s where Kris always likes to go every day. It’s a good starting place. Usually, we’ll start there, and try and film or if someone has a spot in mind we’ll do that. But the police have been coming again and actually chasing, so it’s been kind of hard to skate at Muni lately.
That sucks. It was pretty good for a while before that right?
Yeah. All through quarantine you could go there midday and no one really said anything. Once It warmed up and  spring hit they kind of started coming again. It’s weird. It’s been on and off.
How long have you been skating Muni?
The first time I came to Philly ever to skate was probably 1998, but at that point you just went to Love. We would go through Muni, but you couldn’t really get time there, it was a huge bust back then. The security guards would come out straight away. I always knew it was there but at the same time Love Park and City Hall were still so good that you kind of weren’t too interested in Muni. But now that’s the last one left. That’s all there is.
How long have you been skating with Kris Brown?
I met Kris around 2017 right after Love was gone and everyone was going to Muni. I knew he was good straight away. I remember he backside flipped the 10 stair out front of Muni and that day I hit up Paul Shier like, “Hey, you guys should give him shoes.” He’s young, he’s already doing crazy stuff. And I just felt like he had a good style, good head on his shoulders, and would be a good person to hook up. I’m happy for him. Well deserved and I’m glad to have someone in Philly I can skate and film with all the time, and work on projects with, so it’s good.
How would you say that the soundtrack for this project came about?
Once I filmed with Jamal it just made sense to use one of his songs and then Quentin also has always done a lot for the Philly scene in terms of music. So I just thought, if the skating in the edit is going to be representing Philly, so should the music. It just seems to make sense to have Jamal do a track, Q do a track. Keep it in the circle.
This edit is mostly at Muni and a couple other classic Philly spots. Philadelphia has a lot of very famous spots, but has there been any new spots popping up?
There’s some new ones, but it’s kind of easier to go downtown and spend the day there. It’s easy to get stuck at Muni, but it’s not necessarily a bad thing. You can always either learn something there even if you’re not filming, or you can at least skate. But then again, Philly has a lot of areas where if you venture out of downtown, there’s always new stuff popping up. If you’re willing to get in the car and explore, there’s tons.
How has downtown skating changed over the years? Obviously the landscape has changed, Love Park’s not there, City Hall is not there, but have the skaters or crews changed?
In a way it’s definitely changed. But I don’t think it has in some ways from the late nineties. Those guys wanted to just stay in Love and film there. I feel like that’s still kind of carried on today by some of the crews here, which is cool. Muni is definitely one of the last plazas in the world that is set up that well for skating and you can actually get time at and film there. But then again, there are other crews here who want to go explore the city and find the untouched stuff. That’s something that kind of started here in the early nineties. So I feel like in a way, all the skating that goes on here now is an extension of what happened throughout Philly’s history. I see it in a good way. I think it’s cool that people here respect the roots and want to carry that on.
Lastly, what’s up with your documentary?
I’ve been working on it a bit in 2020. I couldn’t really interview anyone last year for that, which made it tough, but I’ve found so many tapes and so much old footage that people haven’t seen. Roger Brown spent a weekend here last year and he was one of the first pro skaters in Philly. We met up with the guy he filmed with and he has like eight or nine VHS tapes dating back to 1987. So that’s for sure like the first document of Philly skateboarding. So last year was good for that, archiving, finding stuff people haven’t seen. Hopefully this year I can get back on the interviews, and meet up with all the people I need to.

================================================================================

How old are you and where are you from?
I’m 29 and I’m from Uniondale, NY.
What got you into skating?
I saw that show Skate Maps and knew a few kids from my school that skated so I got a board and it was a wrap
.
What was it like growing up in Uniondale? Is there a good scene there?
Growing up in Uniondale was okay. There was no scene. Me and my friends would skate around heading towards other towns and we discovered the Long Island scene. There was the gas station spot for a little. A lot of people from around Long Island would come skate there. They tore that down and put up a 7/11.
What can you tell me about LICK?
LICK stands for Long Island City Kleaners. It’s a skate shop but also a boutique. Got a dope selection of kicks, different boards, has it own line of clothing. Also has shop boards for the low. They have the usual other things like wheels, trucks, bearings. All the essentials a skate rat needs.
What’s the craziest thing you’ve seen go down in Queens?
That’s a very good question. I’ve seen a bunch of random shit, fights, police surrounding blocks for whatever reason, hot girls, parties, nothing super crazy though.
Do you think computers will take over the world?
Haven’t they already? Nobody can look away from their phone, including myself.
Valid point. What’s your favorite spot to skate in NYC?
Tie between Borough Hall, Lenox Ledges, and Flushing.
What about Pizza spot? Equally important.
I used to love Champion’s dollar pizza spot on Essex. That has saved my life many days, but I went vegan so I usually buy this brand with the name Vegan Harvest or I make my own. When I find a spot in the city has a good vegan slice I’ll be money. There was this spot in Williamsburg but it closed down
.
Did you see your skating improve after taking on a vegan lifestyle?
Yeah, things flowed better. My body thanks me for doing that.
Mobb Deep or Capone n Noriega?
Mobb Deep but there’s no wrong answer to that question.
What’re your thoughts on college?
It’s a business. It can be useful in life and help with your future but it’s not a necessity. You don’t need college in order to be successful.
You getting hooked up by any companies these days?
Besides riding for LICK, I get Sk8mafia boards, és helps me with kicks
.
Any projects in the works?
Just building on doing something with Sk8mafia in the near future, but other then that just stacking footy. I’m always in the streets so I’ll most definitely have a project out sooner then I think.
Best skater out of Long Island?
There are many to choose from. Billy McFeely.
Any closing words you’d like the world to know?
If the bartender is to boogie slide off wit the dancer. Much success to everyone reading this. More life, more deals, less gossip
.

================================================================================

Photos by Joe Scordo.
Hi! Are you comfortable being interviewed by a girl?
Yea why not.
That was the first question silly.
You blew your first impression there.
Where are you from? How did you get your start in skateboarding?
I’m from Bloomfield NJ, near Newark. I got into skating from
Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater
, I won’t front. My friend Tony had an influence too.
How do you feel about Tony Hawk?
Birdman is sick, I used to think he was lame, but that guy destroys vert ramps. It took me more time to appreciate vert, I think when I did I realized how fucked Tony really is. That part in
One Step Beyond
he like ollies a 24 foot channel
What do you think about girls who skate?
Most times it’s real weird, I think. It depends on the girl, I guess.
I think it’s weird too. If Haiti sent over a zombie army to the US how would you respond?
Beat the shit outta some zombies, take out as many as I could til I died. I’d be stoked to die in such a way
Speaking of zombies, did you attend your high school prom?
Hell no, prom is for the birds.
Are you glad b00bzinetz won Tampa?
Yeah definitely. It’s great seeing Dennis skate the way he does com- pared to the shitty contest jocks that usually win.
Tech Deck, Pogs, or Crazy Bones as a kid?
I messed with tech decks and Pogs a little. Crazy bones?
Do you like it when girls vajaz-zle their hot pockets?
aha I’m neutral about bedazzeled pussies…
So if heaven were a skate park what would it look like?
Endless, flowy, steep tranny, yellow curbs.
Hell? As a skate park.
Ahah, alright. Scooters, rollerblades, over waxed ledges, helmet nazis, no transition, bad ground, and of course, always really hot.
What’s up with the guy that took the photos for this interview?
Joe Scordo. Dude’s the best basically. Never not fun when I skate with Joe. He’s really gotten to be a really rad photographer too. I like getting photos, more than footage in some cases, so its sick. Joe’s the man.
Any sponsors?
Yeah I ride for Division East skate shop, and Stimulus skateboards
Cool. Alright I’ll save your ass, interview’s over. Any shout outs?
Tony Sandwiches, John Cruz, Scor- do, Bunk, Paulie, Dave at Division East and Mike del Purgatorio at Stimulus. and all the people I skate with and of course my mom.

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis.
So let’s fire it up with your name, age, where you’re at and how long you’ve been skating?
My name is Anthony Acosta, I’m 42 years old and I am in Los Angeles, California. Born and raised. I’ve been skating since 1990, so what year are we in? I don’t even know, I started when I was 10, do the math.
How long have you been shooting photos?
I started in 2003-2004 and I got my first professional camera in 2004. So I jumped in the deep end.
So you were taking photography seriously right off the bat?
Yeah I mean I always had skate photographer friends just from being in the scene out here. I had a good buddy who shot editorial stuff for “regular” magazines, but sick ones you know, Rolling Stone and stuff like that. His assistant quit on him one day to go work for Atiba so he needed help and he was just like “dude can I give you a hundred bucks and I can just tell you what to do?” So I went and I saw how cool it was, it was insane, it was a dream job. He skated too and he would dabble in trying to shoot skate photos and would ask me questions and we’d analyze photos. Then I started seeing that if he could do this, I could do this. Not in a bad way, but more of just what I know. If I could just figure out the equipment and what to use, I could do this. More and more it just felt right, I took a big loan out from my Grandma who believed in me and just went for it.
How long did it take to pay her back?
Dude it took a few years, haha. $15,000 was like $100,000 back in the day. I didn’t have a job, it was just a fortune. But yeah I was just adamant to pay her back so that was a huge inspiration to really fast track my learning. I was in debt and I just had to pay her back, so any catalog photo, whatever was needed. I remember she was just so happy I was diligent and every month I had at least $150 for her.
Do you remember the first photo you got paid for?
So the first one was a Daewon photo in a Dwindle catalog I think. It was just this muddy, dark, black and white back tail photo. Cause I always knew all those guys there and Daewon would just let me learn how to shoot photos of him. It was crazy. And then the first photo I had for an ad was Danny Garcia for a Royal ad. That was pretty early, as soon as I learned how to use flashes and put things in focus. Because these dudes wouldn’t shoot with anyone else! It was at a time where there was just not that many photographers. There was Ortiz, there was Seu Trinh, and O’Meally would be around every now and then. But there was so much going down, I just knew if I had a camera and captured it, it could get used.
Get in where you fit in. So when did you start working at The Skateboard Mag?
Dude, straight up. I was in the right position. That’s a funny question, cause it was all just such a blur. I was shooting, all of a sudden I was getting photos, and then I did a couple things for Skateboarder like a Daewon interview. I think it was around 2006 when I started for The Skateboard Mag. Cause I knew Atiba just from shooting and I remember sending him photos and then he vouched for me. I know he told Swift and Grant to try to get me some work so they were just like “do you want to get put on retainer?” and I was just like “Uh, yeah!”
Damn so you really got fast tracked?
Dude it was so fast tracked that I don’t even remember. I was just thrown into it. But that was the only option at that point, it was either learn or quit you know? So I just used a lot of polaroids, that’s what my friend taught me.
So you would shoot a polaroid before any film?
Yeah, to make sure the exposures were right because my first camera was a Hasselblad. I just asked Seu Trinh what I should get and he told me everything. So I got the flashes, Hasselblad, the fisheye, and a long lens.
What do you think is gonna happen to film in the next five years?
I just bought some rolls of film the other day for a shoot and it was $21 a roll for some color film. Then the processing is $15 bucks, then scans… You’re looking at $50 a roll, no joke. So I don’t know, maybe some people will figure out how to make cheap film stocks and keep it going. I know a few companies are coming out with new film cameras…
Are you still shooting on the Hasselblad at all? I know you built a darkroom at your house right?
I do shoot on it occasionally. That’s the one camera I’ll never get rid of just because it means so much. But I’m always changing cameras, and I do have some enlargers in my office and I’ll print some stuff every now and then. But I should break out that Hasselblad more. I was printing a lot at the beginning of the pandemic, just getting back in there and feeling good and then I started realizing that was so expensive. I wasn’t printing for a show or any real reason so I would just print and then put em on a shelf and they’re still there.
Do you have a photograph that you ever missed that you’ve always thought about?
Man, there’s so many times when I should’ve done this, or I should’ve done that. Or you shoot something at a certain spot and then you see how someone else shot there. There’s so many of those moments, I feel that is what really inspires me when I get to a spot. To look, but not to overthink it, because then you miss the obvious sometimes. I was just thinking about how funny our jobs are because I was just at Universal Studios the other day and they were talking about how they shoot inside 90% of the time because they can control their environment. And I was just thinking how our environment changes at all times. Every day is different at one spot. Different times, with a different skater, there’s cops, there’s cars, and I was just like damn dude, what we do is kind of stressful! Like imagine how easy it would be if we had a set and a fully controlled environment. It would be like shooting fish in a barrel. Skate photography is so cool in that sense, how it’s just an ever evolving list of variables that change.
Alright so what’s the best advice you’ve ever received?
Just shoot as much as possible. I think it was
Reda
who told me when you’re working for a company, just shoot everything. Don’t just wait and shoot the skate photo and pack up. Shoot the dudes warming up or in the van. I always thought that was rad and helped me, especially with the lifestyle stuff I’m able to shoot with Vans. But that would be it, don’t limit yourself and shoot everything. Houses, portraits, landscapes, it’s all just so fun to see what sticks, or what you can incorporate into a skate photo. I feel like a lot of kids these days are just gimmicky, or just sticking to one thing, which I guess is rad, just sticking to your style, but I also think you need to find your style too, right? So just shoot everything.
Pick up your copy of the 2022 Photo Issue Here

================================================================================

Photos by Toby Angel.
Interview by Zach Moeller.
Whistle
is a video out of the Washington, DC area by Eddie Gutierrez, aka
Beltway
. Eddie sat down with us to discuss some of the experiences from filming for the project, as well as to provide some insight in how he balances life with producing subsequent videos. Photos from the making of this video are provided by Toby Angel.
Watch Beltway’s
Whistle
video here.
What’s up Eddie? How was the premiere for the video?
It went smooth! Great turn out last night at the Frederick, MD premiere. I also had an amazing turn out at last week’s Washington, DC premiere. Brought out a screen, speaker and projector that I borrowed from Brent at Embark Skateshop to “Malcom X”, a pretty rad empty bowl spot in the middle of the city. Never done an outdoor premiere in the city so that was really cool.
How much time did you spend filming
Whistle
?
We dropped our last video
Banquet
about 5 months ago back in October.
Do you feel like you can breathe a little bit once you put something out, or do you immediately start thinking about the next video you want to make?
I would say I can finally breathe now that the editing part is done and over with. That to me is the most tedious part of putting a video together, the filming and skating is the best part.
How do you manage to put a video out every year? Do work and life ever get in the way?
I only have one day out of the week to film and skate. I work full time Mon-Fri. Usually Sundays is the skate day and for the most part, it’s a pretty productive day.
What made working on
Whistle
different from previous projects you’ve filmed?
We used to travel a lot and try to hit as many spots outside Washington, DC that don’t get much love but for this one we just stayed local and didn’t do much traveling.
Is it difficult to gather this many homies together to be a part of a project like this or does it happen pretty organically?
Usually I hit up a handful of people to skate with, and by the end of the day we have a big squad, three cars or more driving around from spot to spot.
Was there one person in particular who was the most fun to work with while filming
Whistle
?
I’d say Pooch. His determination to get a clip is infectious. His energy gets me hyped to be out there with him trying to get footage.
Any wild stories or situations you found yourself in during the filming process?
A handful of us were skating into a bank at this indoor, rainy day spot and a super-citizen started yelling at us, “Is this your private skatepark?? People live here!” He then started getting up in Eric Gouldman’s face being super confrontational and then David Salazar started yelling at him to back the fuck up. After some more yelling he runs after David who is on his board skating off and shoves him into a wall and runs off cause he realized he just assaulted someone over skateboarding in a public place.
Who are some of the younger homies out of the DMV that people should keep an eye out for?
Gabe Amaya is probably the youngest dude I film with and he’s been fucking shit up lately. Keep an eye out for him.
Run us through a normal day filming in the streets.
Well, usually we meet up downtown around 9 AM, grab some açaí bowls up in Adams Morgan at Bolt n Jolt, warm up at Pulaski or the revamped Shaw skatepark then start moving around the city, sometimes checking out new spots or just revisiting old spots. On most occasions somebody will have a trick in mind at a certain spot so we try and bang those out. Most spots are usually bust free on Sundays so that helps. We wrap the filming session with good food, good drinks and good laughs.
What’s next?
Hopefully my health allows me to keep on keeping on with filming and skating. I suffer from Lupus, an autoimmune disorder that causes lots of discomfort and pain. It’s been managed well these past few years with the help from my doctors so I think I will be skating and filming with the homies until I cannot physically do it anymore.

================================================================================

Filming and editing by Katon Black.
Photos by Jacob King and Dom Westbury.
Interview by Zach Moeller.
“The Sanctuary” Part 1 is a skate film by Katon Black, starring himself and dear friend Roland Wiley. This film
takes place on the south side of Chicago, on the top floor of a school that was closed down by mayor Rahm Emanuel in 2013. It became a safe haven for skaters over the cold months. This film is about friendship, community, having a place to skate during cold winters, and most importantly the love for the art we create. Guest appearances by Deric Esparza, Jody, Julian Izaguirre, Frankie Winley, Jake Oakes, Corey Henderson, Mark Padilla, Billa, Hideaki Normura, Aaron Davis, Adontis, Marlen Aguirre, Desiree Rosario, Komla Amoaku, Peter Scaletta, David Rodrigez, and Karim Woods.
How did you originally come across this space and what led to it being a skatable space?
So I originally met the man who owned and ran programming out of the building about a year prior to the filming of this video. He saw me out skating one day on the south side of Chicago when I was filming for my part
Seamoss
. He was super nice, and hyped to see me out skating. It’s his voice actually, at the beginning of my
Seamoss
part, that asks for my name and then says, “Katon Black, my favorite skateboarder.” So a few months down the line from meeting him then, I showed my mom my
Seamoss
part, and she said she knew that man. Crazy how the world works out. So she gave me his number and I asked him if I could put some skate obstacles on the 3rd floor of the school to have a space to skate during the winter months. You also gotta understand, here in Chicago, there are no indoor skate parks in the city, especially on the south side. They’re all super far out in the suburbs and cost anywhere from $10-15 to skate. I understand they have bills to pay but not everyone can afford that just to skate. So we were super hyped to have this new space, and me and some friends started building manny pads, ledges, banks, wall rides, and flat bars for the spot.
You mentioned at the end of the video that you needed permission to be in this space, can you elaborate on that?
Yes you need permission, from either me or my homie Roland, who is my friend who also starred in the film. We consider it our space. We don’t ask for money, just for consideration. We’re responsible if anything happens up there, like broken windows or if kids start tagging up there. Shit like that. So we ask anyone viewing the video to not look at this project as just an abandoned place to wreak havoc. Someone generously let us use the space, and we generously let other people use it, but only when they have our permission. We have had so many different skaters through the space from local Chicago legends to people you never heard about. Skaters from all backgrounds, all different parts of the city. And everyone who has come so far respected the space and respected our rules.
Do any of the children affected by the school closures in Chicago skate at this space?
Yes. If you notice in the video there were two younger kids who we brought into the space. We just happened to see them out skating one day, through the window of the school. The kid who I got a clip of, his name is Karim Woods, he literally lives right next to the school. Had the school still been open till this day that’s where he would have been attending. And this happened all over the south side of Chicago. As I mentioned in the beginning of the film, I think it’s important to know, out of all the 49 schools that got closed, 80% of the kids impacted by this were Black kids. I think that isn’t a coincidence at all, and really speaks to who the city prioritizes and who they could care less about.
Even though this space is no longer an open public school, I think it’s fair to say it is still a place of education. What do you hope people learn when they come use this space?
I would totally agree, it is still a place of education. Even before we put our skate obstacles on the 3rd floor, there was another program running out of the gym. It’s a basketball youth basketball program and they provide kids with a space to continue to grow their skills through the winter months. Just like skating there are virtually no places on the south side of Chicago where young basketball players can go to hoop over the winter months, especially ones that are free. So yes, this building has become a place for people to still learn. One thing I do want people to learn when they come to this space is that it takes community. Growing up I would always hear my mom say this saying, “it takes a village,” and man this school speaks to that. Because it truly does take a village, even when all odds are against you. Even when your city is is pulling out resources from your community, as long as the village is still there, we can overcome despite the cities discrimination. We have to fight back for something that should be a birthright, the freedom to a public education. But if we can’t even get that, at least we can do something like what folks have done at this school and continue to use the building as a breeding ground for education, self expression, creativity, and the development of the youth. And I understand it isn’t everyday that someone has the ability or capital to buy a school, so if no one had made that commitment, they might have just destroyed the building. So I’m extremely grateful that they were able to keep this building standing and use it as a place to continue to help the community prosper.
Tell me about some of the happiest moments using this space.
Every moment we breathed in this space was a happy moment in my eyes. This space was unlike anything ever witnessed for the skate community in Chicago. A lot of people who describe it as some real
Tony Hawk Pro Skater
ass shit. But truly man, this building was magical. For me and Roland, it was our first time being able to skate through the winter without having to travel so far because we both didn’t have cars, or pay to skate. There was no heat in the building so as you can tell from the video, we would be in there freezing our asses off, but at least it was dry, it was safe, and there was no wind. With all those things eliminated all you had to do was dress warm and be content shredding! Some of the happiest moments though maybe came from dialing in tricks we really wanted. Like when Roland lands a backside 180 switch manny 180 out. You can see in his face his reaction and the atmosphere of the room, how genuinely siked he was and every was for him. It truly was a special moment. Or when I finally landed that fakie flip switch manny, you can just see the excitement burst through the room. The other best memory was literally just from being a facilitator, being able to use this space to share it with other skaters from the city. Skaters would travel from all different directions to skate this little spot me and some homies made. How magical is that? Skaters from all different backgrounds, skaters who never met, they would all meet here and everyone would get along and be homies. That was the real magic of this spot, being able to connect so many skaters from different scenes. And the final blessing besides was simply just being able to be there. Man, in all seriousness, it was unlike anything I’ve ever experienced. Unlike anything any Chicago skater has ever experienced.
It’s clear that the city does not care about the communities affected by these closures but it is rad to see the community you are helping to build take care of its self and others surrounding it. Do you have any future plans for this space or others like it? In what other ways are you looking to provide for the south side community?
Well the biggest way I plan to provide for the south side is through my skate lessons and providing free resources like apparel, shoes, and boards to kids. My brothers and I started this small organization called
Natty Bwoy Bikes
& Boards.
We were the only skate shop on the south side of Chicago, and we sold a few hard goods out of a shipping container in Bronzeville. For over a year now, during the good weather months in Chicago, I have provided free skate lessons every Sunday for two hours at a park right by my house. Growing up as a skater on the south side I didn’t see many Black skaters out there, and when I did it’d be magical. My goal is to help this next generation of south side skaters through my lessons, providing resources, and exposure. Exposure is the biggest thing, I’m sure I would have started skating sooner if only I was exposed to it sooner. So hopefully in the future seeing Black skaters out is just as common as any other. I really want to provide spaces for young Black skaters to grow and develop and feel like they belong. Growing up there weren’t any real places to go if you were looking to get into skating on the south side, I hope to change that for the future. In terms of the Sanctuary, for now it’s just a breeding ground for us older skaters until I can find a way to make the space safer, warmer, and more inviting for young kids. And I’ll reiterate once more that someone does own the space and they purely let me and my homie be there from the kindness of their heart. This isn’t an abandoned building that anyone can go to, you need permission from us to skate there.

================================================================================

What up Mike? What are you up to today?
Hey man! Today I am working from home which entails writing emails, digging through hard drives, sending photos, etc. And answering these questions of course.
Where are you from? What was skating like there when you first started?
Steubenville, Ohio. Then moved to Lansing, Michigan when I was 11. Michigan is where I first saw a skateboard. Skating was crazy there. Lansing is far from being a big city, and street skating was in its infancy in the late ’80s, so no one knew what the fuck I was doing. My teachers often talked shit. I remember once a teacher making fun of me for wearing some loud ass blue Jimmy’s pants, and yellow Converse. The exact outfit I saw Christian Hosoi wearing in Thrasher. I simply walked out of class not saying a word, thinking Hosoi is way cooler than his dumb ass.
How did you get into photography in the first place?
I’ve somehow been into photography my whole life. I was fascinated by cameras as far back as kindergarten. I had a darkroom in my parent’s basement even before I started skating, but when I first saw a skateboard magazine I was truly amazed. I remember marveling at the lighting, angles, use of fish eye lenses. It was unlike anything I had studied in photography magazines and books.
You live in SoCal now, right? Do you still go back to Michigan?
Yes, I live in Encinitas which is about 25 miles north of downtown San Diego. I don’t go back to Michigan too often. Now that Kalis lives there again, I hope to be in Philly and Chicago a lot more just like the old days! I’ve already been to both cities a few times since he moved six months ago. I flew out to Philly for the day to shoot his newest DC add recently. It was so amazing. It was Josh, KT, Winning, and all the locals at Muni. It made me really happy to be there with those guys all doing the same shit together two decades later. I love all those dudes.
What was it like living in SF in the ’90s? Got any good stories from around that time?
It was incredible. San Francisco was paradise if you were a skateboarder in the ’90s. I remember going into Eddies, a breakfast spot that all the locals ate at, and seeing Tommy, Natas, Thiebaud. I was tripping. I lived in a flat on Oak and Scott streets in that same neighborhood, and you could hear skaters going by all day every day. I loved hearing that sound throughout the day. Nothing made me happier.
You were close with the Mad Circle dudes when it was first starting, right?
Yes, I worked for Mad Circle from 1994 till late 1997. I was so lucky to work with them. I shot photos, and helped Justin Girard with anything he needed because it was a one man operation. If any company should come back, it should be Mad Circle. It was far ahead of its time.
Could you tell that some of the dudes you were shooting with were going to have such an impact? Or were you guys just out skating?
I was simply out with my friends skating. It just so happened that I had a camera with me…I met everyone in the city through skating with them. I didn’t try to become a skate photographer when I moved to SF. Once I befriended a lot of guys in the city, they learned that I shot photos, then asked me to shoot them. I actually wish that I had shot tons more back then. I had zero idea that people would be looking at/talking about what I was shooting more than 20 years later! I was very fortunate that my friends were guys like Carroll, Karl Watson, SJ, etc. who have all become timeless skaters.
What’s your camera bag holding? Do you still shoot film ever?
My camera bag now holds a Nikon D850, and 80-200 f2.8 that I’ve had for 18 years, and 24-70 f2.8 and fisheye of course, and a few flashes with some radio slaves. I usually have Clif Bars in there too. I don’t shoot film anymore. The idea of it is becoming a lot more appealing though. I spent so much time learning how to develop and print it. Growing up shooting film was the best thing ever, so I’m starting to miss it.
Did you go to school for photography at all?
I did not. I tried attending Lansing Community College, but realized they had a strict photo program where one was required to start from the beginning. I didn’t want to re-learn what I had been doing since before I was 10, so I got my money back then moved to SF to skate for the summer. I never came home. The streets of SF became my schooling I guess…
So Kalis was one of the first dudes you tarted to take photos of? What do you remember most about him when he was young?
Josh and I did shoot some skate photos in the late ’80s. I never really shot skate photos until I shot Kalis. He needed some photos for 90 (Kevin Staab’s clothing company) I believe. I mostly shot landscapes, portraits, etc. back then. When I was around skating I only wanted to skate, not photograph it.
When did you get hooked up with DC? And how’d that come about?
After Mad Circle ended, I Moved to L.A. Coincidentally Carroll, SJ, Chico, Meza, and Huf all moved there around the same time, so I started working for Girl in 1998. Rick and Mike skated for DC then of course, so it happened kind of naturally. Ken Block called me in 1999, and that was it. I was always intrigued by their two page ads, shoes, and just about everything else. I was hyped for the opportunity.
With Love Park gone, do you look back at that era any differently then you did before? Some of your shots there have become iconic with what Love represented during that time. Do you have a favorite photo from there?
Hindsight is 20/20 for sure. I now look back on it very differently. I only kind of knew it was an important time and place in skating, but we were all so young, and took things for granted. You think that you’ll always be doing this or that. Kalis and Stevie’s DC shoes were coming out so I spent most of my summers in 1999 and 2000 there. My favorite Love Park photo from back the had to be Josh’s tre flip over the can. I would have shot it differently had I known its significance 20 years later, but so hyped I shot it the way I did. I shot a sequence of it to show the distance, and was so fucking stoked when I held the negative up looking at that catch frame. It’s certainly one of the most gangster Tre flips of all time. Kids now should study up on his Tre flip. The no effort bullshit one has no place in skateboarding.
Favorite trick ever witnessed?
Getting to witness Danny Way film his Mega Ramp part for the DC video is my favorite thing I’ve witnessed. I know that’s not a single trick, but it was absolutely insane. Often it was just Danny, Greg Hunt, and myself out there filming. No one else knew what he was up to until the video came out. Seeing someone push skating like no one else had ever done was sick to see, especially being the only person there to photograph it.
What’s it like shooting with Danny Way? Are you ever scared he’ll die?
It’s intense. I’ve been worn out physically and mentally shooting his 6-7 hour sessions while filming for the DC video. I probably should have been a lot more scared for his life! The Mega stuff was filmed in the middle of nowhere with no cell service, and at least a few hours away from any hospital. When the board stuck in the rail, the thought of what that would do to a human certainly crossed my mind. I kept that to myself though. I was certain that thought crossed all of our minds, but he’s always been confident so you know he’ll come through.
Is it true he smoked weed on top of the roll in at the Great Wall of
China?
Don’t believe that ever happened. Things were pretty buttoned up with officials from the Chinese government. I can assure you they weren’t too big on pot.
Are there any similarities between shooting a motorcross rally and a skate session?
I love shooting other stuff. Don’t get me wrong, nothing will ever replace skating for me, but it’s fun to shoot moto, car, etc. I look at it exactly like shooting skating. You need to show the take off and landing, then compose it to tell a story. A lot of car and moto shooters do some guy in the sky, tightly cropped shit, but I get hella far away. If I can make a knee high ledge look dope, a car jumping an entire block in the middle of SF shouldn’t be a problem!
How’d you guys pull off shutting the Bay Bridge down for that crazy Ken Block photo shoot?
The production company working on that actually pulled permits for another shoot, I believe it was Ironman 3, then they moved locations to Miami. They already had permits for the Bay Bridge, Russian Hill, etc. Ken knew Josh and I had plans to shoot the pushing photo, but no one else did. The whole “it’s easier to ask for forgiveness than permission” thing is what I live by for shooting.
Would you rather shoot a session on the Mega Ramp or in a schoolyard?
It all depends on who’s skating!
Top three skaters of all time?
Shit, I officially can’t answer this one! Just on DC there’s Wes, Danny, Kalis, Tiago, Evan, etc. Those guys are way up there for me, but then you have Carroll, Guy, Keenan, etc.
What’s your take on Instagram? Is it destroying our culture or enriching it?
I love Instagram, but I choose not to look at it TOO much. I didn’t watch every shitty video on VHS back in the day, and I don’t want to see every crappy clip at skate parks now.
Who were your biggest influences in photography when you were coming up? How about photogs that currently get you hyped?
Richard Avedon, Walter Iooss, and Grant Brittain, not necessarily in that order. I still look at older stuff from all three of those guys to get me hyped. A lot of my inspiration for photography comes from outside of skating, it always has.
How many stairs have you o
llied?
Pretty sure it was in the double digits. I don’t count stairs now, and I didn’t back then either. Not too high, but in the double digits at least…
What’s the longest trip you’ve been on?
About a month. I’m going to be in South America with DC for 20 days next month, that’ll be fun. When you’re gone for that long you just have to be in the same mindset as everyone on the trip, within reason…
Have you ever given up on someone? Or told a skater to stop trying the trick?
No, I have tried to steer someone in one direction or another I guess. The closest to that is I have run out of film. Danny once told me that I should always have at least 1,000 rolls of film. Tried explaining that was about 6 grand or so, but he didn’t really care.
Biggest regret?
Not shooting absolutely everything around me all the time. I look back on the random snaps, out takes, etc. They all take on such a different meaning now, it’s so dope. All of the stuff at Love is great example. The photos of Kalis and Stevie together, and everyone chilling in front of the Love sign captures that era as much if not more than just a skate photo.
What’s the future hold? Any projects in the pipeline?
That’s always a great question. Hopefully more of the same. Things are different now, but I still wanna create images that will be looked back on 20 years from now the same way the Love Park stuff is now.
What do you think the future of magazines is? Is there a future in printed content?
I think a few magazines will continue to get better, and those who don’t will not be around. The future of magazines is questioned more than books because books are a more tangible thing. I believe that magazines will have to move in the direction of being something can’t be discarded. Granted, it’s easier said than done, but I believe that’s the future of all printed content.
Have any advice for kids trying to be skate photographers?
I always tell people to just shoot a lot. It sounds simple, but your style evolves the same way that a skater’s does. I never stop learning and changing, and that’s what makes it so fun.

================================================================================

Favorite thing about Philly?
Everything man, just the streets. Everything’s a skateable distance. It’s like a little big city. You can skate from one side of the city to the other on a cruiser board like it ain’t shit, no hills all flat land.
What does dropping trees mean?
That’s what I do on the weekends. My grandfather’s got a couple acres up in Reading, up on the old mountain. He burns wood for heat so I go up there and drop trees, split shit by hand. My buddy and I go up there and just handle shit. It’s like a second hobby, chopping wood.
Favorite spots?
Stonecliff, little skatepark in Reading. Banging. It’s right next to a river so you can go skate, drink beer there all day, and then there’s a river right next to it so you can go fish. And then probably just Philly in general, the whole fucking city I like skating that shit just ripping the streets. I like it all, as long as you’re on four wheels doing kickflips, it don’t matter where you’re at.
How did you get on Selfish?
Brain Wenning actually hooked it up. Right when they were starting out he was on that shit, he just hit me up one day said he had some shit going down with Jereme Rogers, Selfish, and I said I was down. He hooks it up, He’s always looked out, good mother fucker.
What was the Mi Amor tour like?
It was tight man I had just come off a two month Axion tour, I saw Jereme at the New York trade show, he said, “You wanna go to Spain, we’re going in two weeks?” I was like yea, I’m down. So he just tossed us out there, he had an apartment out there for the month just skated everyday. Got it crackin.
What do you think of contests? Have you skated any big one?
I don’t really like contests much. It’s cool to go out to them, get to see a lot of people you don’t see much. I’ll admit I’m not big on contests but the biggest one I skated was out on the Dew tour for a little bit that was tight. I just kinda slid in there and then they asked me back for another one out in Utah. It’s tight out on the Dew tours, got fucking catered food, got a medical room where you go in
there, say your back hurts, you get free back rubs and shit. It’s banging just kinda live large for a bit, ha but beyond that contests suck, you know. It is what it is, you gotta do it.
What’s the best trip you’ve been on?
Probably one trip we took with Axion it was cross country we drove from Philly to Cali. The homie Jay Strickland, he lived in Philly for a few months prior and he was moving out there so Plain, the dude that runs Axion, set it up to rent a van and drive us out there. We stopped at a bunch of shops and demos whatnot. It was me, Austin Kanfoush, Jay Strickland, and Mark Brandstetter, and Nelly Mundo the filmer homie. We took a van out there, just slept at rest stops and skate parks and shit the whole way. It was tight real low budget trip, sleeping wherever the fuck.
Favorite place you’ve been to?
It’s hard to say… Philly is pretty tight. I like Philly, and I like where I’m from Reading. We got the mountains. Beyond that probably San Francisco they got the hills. Just fuckin bomb hills wherever you’re going, just mash. Leave the bar and next thing you know you’re fuckin going 30 down a hill, nothing beats that shit. I’d say probably San Francisco and maybe Barcelona cause you can drink on the streets out there it’s pretty tight.
Were you on the news the other day?
Y
ea we were down there skating Black Diamond fuckin channel 6 news rolls up. Dudes are standing there with the mics, and fuckin big shoulder camera and the dude workin there’s like “yea they’re filming some shit for the 6 o’clock news just go out and do some tricks.” So we were in there filming. We had like a 15 man feeble grind on the flat rail, everyone got on that shit, I don’t know if it’s gonna be on there, but there was probably like 6 fools on the rail at one time.
What’s it like chilling with Jereme Rogers?
It’s tight he’s a… I don’t really know how to put him, he’s one hell of a human being. Excellent mother fucker. A lot of people may hate on him or what he’s done or what he’s doing but if you ever actually chill with the dude he’s fuckin one of the smartest dudes I know, just hang out with him and you learn shit. Every other thing he says is quotable. He knows what he’s doing. One of my favorite human beings. You seen him rap? Oh yea when we were on that trip he’ll bust out in some rhymes like whatever. It’s sick you know, he just does that shit cause that what he likes to do. That’s what he wants to do. Can’t hate on a mother fucker that just doing his thing.
Who are some of yr favorite people to skate with?
Anybody that’s just trying to shred. Most of the homies I hang out with. I skate with KT, Kevin Taylor all the time he’s fuckin one my favorite skaters. I’m influenced a lot from him. He’s been in the game. He’s been skating since before I was even fuckin born. He’s still doing it still shredding harder than anybody probably even knows. That fool’s out every fuckin day shredding. But yea, all my homies, Axion squad, homies from back in Reading that don’t really skate as much no more but they’ll come out on the weekends. I like skating with them cause they still got that old mentality about skating before it became what it is today.
Were you in the circus?
Ah, never in the circus but I did some acrobatics from the age of maybe like five to ten, like forward tumbling and shit, back flips. It helped a little to learn how to fall, and really just become more agile but I stopped doing it when I was 10 years old. I can still do all the backflips and shit. Learning how to just slam your body into shit is good especially for skateboarding.
What’s up with the benihanas?
I love em, just poke that shit out. They just feel good. I like the bennys, a lot of people hate on the benihana but I love it. I back the benihana. Fuckin still do a benny when I’m 50 years old.

================================================================================

Do you like robots?
The robots that make our lives less tedious are fantastic. Robots that mimic humans or animals seems like it defeats the purpose of designing a robot in the first place.
Nice, are you human?
The probability is low if you ask people that read up on multiverse theory, so I’ll align my answer with their’s. Probably not.
Some people say the way you skate is inhumane, with no regard to the physical limits of a normal person or their egos that disintegrate when they realize that your skating exists. What’s your opinion of that opinion?
I wish those people could understand that I probably couldn’t do half the technical stuff they can do. I don’t enjoy humbling someone unless their ego is putting others down.
How’s the new job?
I’ve been working at Abracon as an electrical engineer for two years now, but I finally switched in January to full-time. Thankfully, I have a lot more time and money to put into skating and research.
What do you do there and what does that even mean?
I’m an Associate Product Engineer for precision oscillators and real-time clocks (RTCs). Basically, I work with quartz rocks that filter out a specific frequency to clock circuits and keep track of time. If you’re interested, look up “crystal oscillator” on Wikipedia.
That’s wild. What’s a normal day look like for you these days?
Monday-Friday: 6:30am Wake up. 7:00am Work. 12:00pm Reasearch and lunch. 1:00pm Work. 4:00pm Skate/Research/Game/Anime/Girlfriend time. 10:00-11:00pm Sleep.
Saturday/Sunday: 7:00am Research/update the Roger site/coffee/girlfriend time. 10:00am skate or hang out at No-Comply. 7:00pm research/update the Roger site/coffee/girlfriend time.
Are you living a perpetual groundhog day that acquiesces to the current climates? Socially, politically, and weatherly?
No idea what this means, but my dumb answers are incoming. Socially: I suck at socializing. Politically: I don’t trust people in suits. Weatherly: I acknowledge climate change’s existence.
Bravo, what can we expect next from you?
Another part and more trips after this disease stuff goes away. I need to get back to Japan asap.
Will you be engineering any androids anytime soon?
Hell no. I’m sticking to my FPGAs and neural network/deep learning acceleration circuits.
If you were to choose between being a hard flip frontside grab down the nine stair or a frontside grab out of a fifteen foot noseblunt on a ledge which would you be?
Can’t go wrong with a wretched stink bug fakie out of a 15ft noseblunt.
Me too, whew…it’s like we’re friends or something. Tell us three things you think every person you’ll ever meet should know about you.
I’m a nerd. I love finding contradictions to people’s maxims. I’m the most self-critical person you’ll meet.
Very interesting, has anybody ever told you that before?
The first one, definitely.
Do you tell people things often or are you more of a listener?
I think not. I’m more of a listener.
What’s that video part you’re working on about?
It’ll be out soon enough. I’ve been stacking all year for a few projects.
Is there anyone you’d like to thank or give a shoutout too? For the love?
I don’t want to leave anyone out, so you know who you are. If I smile when I see you, you mean so much more to me than you think.
Can you leave us with some words of wisdom?
Do stuff that nobody else wants to do but things that people still appreciate.

================================================================================

Where are you from?
Florida.
Where do you go to school?
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
What the heck brought you out to Philadelphia?
I wanted to go to the nearest city to skateboard. I like skateboarding, and hanging out with my friends.
Why do you never call back chicks?
Cause after I have it, I’m done.
What happened that time OG punched you in the face?
I’m here alone one night, and I look out the window and OG is trying to break into my car. So I go out and confront him, and he says it was someone else. I say I don’t believe him, and get in the car to move it, and he reached in and punched me in the face as I drove away. It was the first time I ever got punched in the face.
Where do you see skating going?
Nowhere.
What do you see yourself doing in 5 years?
Still skating, but with nothing.
What are some of your favorite spots to skate?
FDR, Pops, Cecil, and the barrier. Can we stop, please? I’m way too high now.

================================================================================

by Marcus Waldron
How did you get into photography?
I was always really into memories. I guess my parents had always taken photos a lot back in the day when I was growing up. I took a photography course in high school where I realized that I liked photography, but I didn’t take it very seriously until college. My first year of college I ended up moving to New York City. I lived in Brooklyn in 2005 when I went to FIT (The Fashion Institute of Technology) and I took a bunch of different arts related courses. That’s where I got my first real introduction to photography. We used to shoot photos on color film, send them somewhere to get developed and then we would have critiques in these classes, which I always thought was really interesting. Being able to look at your own artwork and other people’s artwork and talk about it, I think is super important. So that’s when I realized that I was into photography and started doing it myself.
Did you shoot much before that? Did you ever have disposables or point and shoots or anything?
When I was younger, I feel like disposable cameras were a big thing. You could get them at any drugstore or CVS and I always had something like that. Anytime I did something special, if it was a class trip or a family vacation or something like that, I was always into trying to document that stuff the best I could, but I never took it that seriously until later, just for memory’s sake.
When you were in school, what kind of cameras were you using? What was the first camera you remember using that got you excited about?
I know my parents always had different film cameras that I would dabble with. I don’t remember what any of those were, but the first time I got a camera and I was really stoked on it, I think it was the Canon Rebel 2, which was a film SLR camera. It had a manual, an auto, and a bunch of different settings. It was a very intro level camera, but you could do so much with it. It’s a beginner camera, but I actually still have that camera to this day. It’s not the tools that you have, it’s what you do with them that’s most important.
How do you think skateboarding and photography relate?
There are so many crossovers with skateboarding and photography, but for me personally, as far back as I could remember, I was always looking at skateboard magazines, whether it was photos of actual skateboard tricks or behind the scenes photos from skate sessions. I was always intrigued by those images. I feel like skateboarding has always been documented. I know in my own life I try to photograph people in places that are important to me, and I find myself surrounded by people that are important to me, and in places that are meaningful to me, when I’m out skating. So I’ve been inspired by the magazines and what past generations have done, but currently, I am doing my best to document my time while out skating, whether it’s a trick or just what’s going on around the session.
How often do you shoot?
I have a camera on me every day. Whether I shoot photos every day or not, that’s another story. But I would say since about 2009 or so, I’ve had a Yashica T4 in my bag every single day. I literally don’t leave home without the camera, so it really depends on how much I use it, but I always have it.
Do you develop all your film right away or do you tend to save stuff?
There were times in my life where I was dropping off multiple roles a week. I honestly moved down the street from a photo store at one point just to be closer to the photo store. I’ve since then chilled out a little bit. It takes me longer to get through a roll of film, but I still get just as excited each time I finish a role. I would say I usually drop off a role every few weeks, and I am actually weird about that process as well. I actually send my photos to a place called the Dark Room Lab in San Clemente, California to get developed, which I know a lot of my friends think is pretty wild.
What is it about them that you send your stuff there?
Honestly. I’ve tried a bunch of different places, but I’m super particular. I was going to this one spot in Jersey and every time I got the scans back I would examine them very closely and for a while I just kept getting a lot of dust and things like that back with the scans. So I’m very particular as to where I send things. When I was living in Jersey, I started going to a few different places in the city. I tried out a bunch of different labs. They did some great stuff, but I think it had more to do with timing and having to go back into the city and pick up the negatives was kind of a pain. So I ended up finding out from a few different friends that they used the Dark Room lab. I was a little hesitant at first to give them a try, but I’ve been using them for years now and things have been going well. I’m very happy with the results and I’m a firm believer that if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.
Do you ever shoot color or are you pretty much just black and white?
What’s interesting is I started off shooting color and I shot so much color that I wanted to switch it up. I went quite a few years shooting black and white, and just recently I actually decided to go back to shooting color. I honestly do both, but I spent certain amounts of time focusing on one or the other. Back when I was in college, I took courses on black and white photography and courses on color photography. And what was really interesting in that color photography course is that they showed you how to use color to your advantage in a photograph, and they showed us different examples of how photographers use color to make the photo that much better. There are ways that color can be distracting or there’s ways that color can work for an image. When it comes to black and white, you just capture that entire image and there’s nothing that’s distracting. You’re more focused on the actual frame. So there’s pluses and minuses to both of them. It really just depends on what I’m feeling at the time, and right now I’m kind of hyped on color, hopefully you’ll see some more of that soon.
What do you do with your photos after you get them back?
I’m kind of crazy about that actually. I’m very organized when it comes to labeling them and deciding which ones are my favorites out of the batch. When I get a roll back, I look through it a bunch of different times, I decide which are my favorites and I put them into a folder. Once I put them into the folder, I label them, I basically give them a title, put the data on them and what kind of film and if they’re high res or low res. So I basically label and organize all the files and I have them organized on my computer, and then I’ll decide whether or not I want to post them on Instagram or save them for a later date. But my first thing is I basically go through them and organize them according to my favorites.
Have you ever done a zine or a photo show or anything like that?
I actually made a zine or a small book back in 2014. So 10 years ago. I went through a really gnarly breakup and I kind of blamed it on the fact that I was skating all the time. I know now that wasn’t the case and that had nothing to do with it, but during that time I almost blamed it on skating. I wanted to look at different things that made me happy and I was like, you know what? I love shooting photos and I don’t really do that much anymore. So that’s when I ended up getting my Yashica T4. I wanted to have a camera on me at all times. I wanted to be able to take photos at parties or just out with friends, and I didn’t want a big camera on me. I decided that I was going to start a Tumblr, and on that Tumblr, I was going to post a new fi lm photo every single day for a year. I don’t know why I made up this imaginary goal for myself, but I said, you know what? I think I can do it. I’m going to make this happen. So I posted from, I think it was October, 2013 to October, 2014. I posted a new fi lm photo every single day on Tumblr. Back then Tumblr was a thing. It’s not so much a thing anymore, but I kind of just did it as a place to showcase my work. At the end of that year, I decided that I was going to put out a book of my favorite images. I had a release party at NJ Skate Shop, had a bunch of friends out, as many people from the community as I could get out. And it was honestly just an amazing time where I told myself I was going to shoot photos for a year, and I did. After that year, I was thinking about the fact that I always wanted to put out a book or a zine, and I made that happen as well. And that is something that I still look at to this day. And even though it was one of the hardest times in my life, I feel like it was such a rad time and such a big time for growth. I ended up creating a bunch of amazing memories during that time that are beautiful to me, but I also hope they’re beautiful to others just because of how I documented them.
Do you have any favorite people, places, or things you like to shoot photos of?
It’s really hard to be able to pinpoint any of that. You kind of just know when it happens. I find when I put myself in a different situation or if I’m hanging out around people I really enjoy, a lot of those things kind of present themselves. Sometimes someone will be like, Hey, you should take a picture of that, and honestly, that’s not something that gets me psyched. I have a hard time deciding what or when. I know it when I see it.
Any favorite photos that you’ve shot?
It’s funny. As we’re doing this interview, I’m looking on the screen and I have a photo hanging above me, and it’s a photo of Yaje Popson that I took probably in 2007 where he just looks super young. He looks way younger than he actually is in the photo. I was still in college when I shot this photo, and I remember the teacher would give us different assignments and this one was to go and shoot photos of something you’re passionate about. So I loaded up the camera with a fresh roll of black and white and I just went skating with my friends that day. I remember JP Blair was on the session, Yaje was obviously on the session and there were a few others, but we skated around Manhattan and we ended up over by the water and just as skaters do, we were chilling, just having a good time fooling around and Yaje ended up putting these three cigarettes in his mouth. He didn’t smoke or anything like that, but for some reason, he just put these cigarettes in his mouth and I was standing above him looking downward, and I was able to just take the photograph at the perfect moment. JP Blair is actually in the top left of the photo and Yaje is in the bottom right with three cigarettes in his mouth looking super young. It was just an interesting time and for some reason that photo is, and will always be one of my favorites. That’s one photo that every time I move, I always make sure there’s a place in my apartment where I can hang that photo.
Do you have any friends or other photographers you like to talk about your photos with?
For sure. I have a ton of inspirational photographers that I look up to. One person that stands out in particular is Jared Sherbert. Jared is such an interesting person who I just love hanging out with. When we hang out, we don’t skate or anything like that. We usually just kick it and talk about life. Jared is someone who I really respect and has done a lot of amazing things in terms of just creative fi elds in general, and his photography is top notch. So a lot of times I like to send photos I get back to Jared and see what his thoughts are. If I need help deciding what I want to use for something or not, I’ll often run it by someone like Jared to see what he thinks. Obviously I have my own opinion a lot of times, but it’s always nice to get a second opinion, especially from someone who is a master of the craft, like Jared.
Are there any other photographers whose work you fi nd infl uential, and is there anything about their work that draws you to them?
I was always very inspired by Ricky Powell’s work. He used to shoot a lot of musicians. I loved his black and white photography. I actually have two Hopps x Ricky Powell boards hanging in the crib right now. Those are two pieces that I make sure to hang every time I find myself moving to a different apartment. So Ricky Powell is and was a huge. inspiration. Current photographers, like Mike Heikkila is an amazing photographer and it seems like he’s always shooting incredible skate photos. Obviously Jonathan Mehring is super inspirational. I actually have a Jonathan Mehring photo hanging above my couch in my living room. It’s a big photo of TNT doing this crazy grab off of this launch ramp in front of the old KCDC. What’s really rad about that photo is I’ve talked to Mehring about this a few different times. I love picking his brain about photography when I see him, and he was telling me that he shot that photo with the T4 using Tri-X 400, which is the exact setup that I would use all the time.

================================================================================

For those who don’t know, where have you been staying during this quarantine and how has it been treating you?
I was living in Brooklyn for the past six years or so after I moved out of San Francisco, but around the end of last year my girlfriend and I moved down to south Florida. We both grew up down here and she started working with her family’s business and they needed her down here so we went for it! It was feeling like it was time for us to leave New York in a way any way, this was pre coronavirus. It’s just a harder existence up there regardless, I feel terrible for everyone up there currently. We bought our first home a few months ago and we’ve been doing a bunch of work on it so we’re staying with my girls parents on a small island town until we finish the renovations. The pandemic definitely slowed that process down, but that’s okay it’s been alright down here. All the family is healthy and I feel very fortunate to be able to say that. We’re all trying to keep busy and respect each other’s personal space. I think that’s important to be able to maintain that balance still.
You’ve been making custom hats for a while, how do you get creative and come up with the ideas for each of them?
Yeah it’s probably been like eight or nine years making hats. I really sucked at it for about half of those years honestly, but I got it down now. I can make the fuck out of a hat. Which kinda led me to using all the weird materials. One thing led to the next and it just got funnier and funnier like oh shit I wonder if this material could work. Could I actually sew a flour tortilla or actually sew a fried egg, or just say fuck it and deep fry a hat. It’s been hilarious. That’s a key in all of it. But I also have been making private label hats for many other brands and designers. Been really exciting to work with and be trusted by entities I respect.
Has spending so much time inside helped or hurt your creative process?
Well realistically, and I’m not sure what this says about me, but my life hasn’t changed all that much in respects to my time inside. I guess I’m an introvert or homebody? I’m definitely not skating every waking moment anymore like I did for most of my life. Still skating but in a different way. But I mean I have mostly worked for myself the past few years and had a big home studio in Brooklyn. And my girlfriend and I don’t really go out to bars or anything. Kinda just worked from home, cooked at home mostly and just chilled. But yeah I’ve been crazy busy during this time. I offered a couple of my art hats on sale for the first time publicly over the internet and the orders piled in, which I am so grateful for. Truly a dream come true.
What’s your process like for making the hats and how long does it take?
Well I’m writing this in the middle of an art hat failure, which I have to try and rectify today. They are all different, I have a couple right now that are kinda transformative ones that will take a couple weeks to develop but then there’s others that I can make in like 30 minutes. They all have weird tricks that enable the material to be sewn and behave like fabric. It’s all trial and error, I guess I’ve been failing a lot more lately on them and not posting as much which has been frustrating, but also a good thing in a way that I guess I’m pushing what’s possible with them and learning new techniques and stuff. Got some fun new ones coming up soon no doubt.
It’s awesome that you’ve been making face masks too. I saw they sold out and you only sold them for $1 because the platform wouldn’t allow you to charge $0. Did you do them all on your own or did you have some help from other people on this?
Yeah! Really stoked that I was able to figure out how to make them. Very gratifying feeling to be able to do something like that for people. My girlfriend and her mom helped cut a lot of the elastic strings for the ear loops, that was a huge help. Because the heat press settings are super sensitive I have to do them in large batches of each step, assembly line style. Each fold of the face mask the material gets thicker and needs to be adjusted and the margin of adjustment between sealing and burning is so small that it takes some time to get it right and then be able to move through the whole batch. I wanted to give this first batch of 1,250 for free, but the big cartel won’t allow you to charge $0 cause they need their processing fees. So I charged $1 for shipping. Basically the break down is I’m in on the project for about $1,000-$1,200 out of pocket materials and then shipping costs around $1.20 per five mask package and big cartel charges a fee. So each $1 order probably costs me like $2.50, so unfortunately there is a financial limit to me being able to sustain offering the masks at a loss. I’ve been very happy that I’m able to do it, it’s just I can’t do it this way forever and hopefully we don’t need masks forever.I think for the next batch I’ll probably just up the shipping cost to $2.50 to try and break even with it and still be able to get them to people for as cheap as I possibly can offer them without hurting myself. Also they just take a really long time to make. 1,250 masks that sold out in an hour has taken me about a month to make. I do have enough materials still to make 5-6 thousand more though, so I’m going to keep at it and offer them as long as people need them.
I saw that your hats were recently featured in the short film called THE MIDAS HAT. Did you make those hats custom for the film or did they pick which ones they wanted from your collection?
Yeah oh my god so stoked on how that came out. Colin Read really is a genius in his field. Can’t wait to watch his full length feature film and hopefully help work on it in some way whenever that happens. He’s the real deal for sure. Colin and I had worked on a short film for Falcon Bowse a year earlier called the bower bird and we have been friends through skating for a long time before that. I think I was still in the beginnings of the art hats but I had a stock of 20-30 and we started bouncing the ideas off each other and it just grew loosely into that story. We mostly used the hats I had made previously, unrelated to the film, but there was a couple I made to fill in gaps and transitions. Super fun time, can’t thank everyone involved enough. So stoked it’s out in the world now.
Have you been getting out to skate at all during this quarantine?
Yeah actually! Like I said were lucky we’re in a smallish island town and there’s not a ton of people around outside so my girlfriend rollerblades and I skateboard around the neighborhood almost everyday. We wear masks and if there’s anyone else out we cross the street or whatever. We never get close to anyone. Definitely lucky to be able to have the opportunity to be outside right now. We’re trying to be respectful of that though, physically and digitally. Not trying to bum anyone out that literally can only stand on their board in their living room right now. Heart goes out to you. Hang in there you’ll be back out soon I’m sure.
What else have you been up to?
Well I just started a small garden. Tomatoes and squash, kohlrabi and herbs. Pretty stoked to watch it start growing. Working on our house renovations a bit each day. Just bouncing back and forth from working on hats and masks and exercising and making food. Watching some good shows and movies, listening to podcasts as I’m sure most of us are. Trying to just stay happy, healthy and do whatever I possibly can to be a help or be a positive influence on society.
Thanks a lot Brian.
Thank you guys for the opportunity for me to talk about some of the fun/dumb stuff I’ve been doing. Hope all’s well with you and yours.
Pick up a hat and support Brian by hitting his website.
https://falconbowse.bigcartel.com/

================================================================================

I’ve been skating with Frankie since the days before I owned a video camera and a fish eye lens. He started trying to get clips right around the time I started filming and it just seemed to go from there. Needless to say we’ve been doing this together for a while now. Frankie has an innovative and somewhat different approach to skateboarding whether it’s combining tricks or skating a near impossible spot , he always has something a little ‘out side the box’ in mind. He’s someone who seems to manage a clip at almost any spot he goes to , adapting to whatever comes his way and doesn’t need any kind of plan to make things happen. In fact the best clips i’ve gotten of him over the years have mostly happened spontaneously. Frankie’s had parts in Dirty Water , Mixed Effect , Sea Level and is currently working on a new one for Orchard skateshop’s next video. All in all Nash is always down for a session and seems to skate with every waking moment thats humanly possible. We all look forward to seeing what he comes up with for his next part
-Elliott Vecchia
How
old are you and where are you from?
I am 23 years old. I grew up in a small town called Sharon and when i was 14 i moved to Scituate. I moved to Boston when I was 18 to go to school and have been here ever since. It’s been about 6 years now. I couldn’t imagine living anywhere else.
How did you get introduced to skateboarding and h
ow long have you been riding?
I have been skating since I was about 11 years old. It’s been a long time. About 12 years now which is more than half my life. I got into skating through older kids that lived in my neighborhood that I hung out with and eventually they got me hooked on it. One of the first people to introduce me to skating was a kid from Brazil that lived down the street from me named Thiago. The first board I ever had was a Nash that i got for my birthday. I used to skate around the streets with the older kids and they would try to teach me tricks.
You’ve been putting a lot of footage out the past 2 years. You had a part in Jay Brown’s
Mixed
Effect
, the opening part in
Sea Level
, and more recently a Orchard welcome to the team clip. You must be in the streets a lot to get all this done in such a short time? How do you do it?
A lot of it has to do with being out of school and trying to skate as much as possible. I went straight from being in high school to college and being in the city I got way more into skating. Once I was done with school I had a lot more time to skate. Once you are in the “real world” all you have to do is make sure you can make ends meet and be able to support yourself. I tried the full time job thing and after 6 months I realized it wasn’t for me. I got lucky and fell into a situation where I could work a few days a week and make time to skate as much as possible. I work for a catering company at all of the museums around Boston that is owned by the famous chef”¯ Wolfgang Puck. I also do freelance graphic design and teach skate lessons here and there. As far as getting footage I am lucky enough to be friends with a lot of talented filmers. Any day I have off I try to go skate and if I end up meeting up with a filmer it’s always a plus. The whole welcome to Orchard clip came about after Sea Level came out. I had been talking to them about trying to get on the team and”¯ I knew I had to film a welcome to clip. Instead of using throwaway or recycling clips I filmed for a couple months this past winter and came up with the clip. I’m glad they were stoked on the footage and I am so stoked to be part of such an amazing shop.
Sea Level
came out amazing, how did you feel with the outcome of your part and the rest of the video?
Thanks man. Yeah I was stoked to have first part. Chris and Elliott who made the video told me early on that I was gonna have opener. Having first part is just as important as last because it is the first thing that people see. I was hyped on how the part came out but there is always gonna be things that I wish I had done differently or tricks that I wish that I had gotten. In the end it is what it is. I was hyped on how the video turned out. Everyone killed it and the video had a very diverse showcase of east coast skateboarding.
Other than Habitat and Orchard is anyone else helping you out?
I ride for Ambiguous and a local wheel company that just came out called Four Wheels. I am also down with
Toebock
.
What keeps you in Boston? Most people take off to New York or L.A what makes skating in Boston so much different than other places?
Boston is my home. I have so many friends here and my family is close by. I love the spots here and there is always new shit popping up all the time. Boston has a lot of old and new architecture so you get a nice variety of stuff to skate. I like to travel but I find myself only going as far as the east coast. I really do not have the desire to skate in California.
Any last words or shout outs to anyone?
Travis
Storer
and everyone at
Skate
Jawn
for giving me the opportunity to do this interview.
My family.
Bro, Armin, Bagley, and everyone else at Orchard.
Elliott
Vecchia
, Chris
Fiftal
,
Cuong
Ngo, Tin Tran, and Lee Madden for filming me.
Xeno
and Buddy for shooting photos. Mike
Tallone
at Habitat for hooking me up with boards and shoes. Luis, Nick, and Travis at Four Wheels. Bryan and Lisa at Ambiguous.
Adam Crew and the
Toebock
homies.
Killshit
homies.
All of my friends and everyone I skate with.

================================================================================

Photos by Kyle Myles
Interview by Chris Aguirre
Name, age, and how long have you been skating?
C: My name is Cullen, I’ve been skating for five years, and I’m 14.
X: I’ve got to do some math. I started when I was six and I’m 15 now.
So nine years?
X: But I technically started when I was eight, so seven years. My name is Xan Stevenson, I’m fifteen, and I’ve been skating for seven years.
What got you both into skating?
X: So this one dude who I’m friends with was running a TV ad and needed a skateboard prop. When they were done using it as a prop he suggested to my mom that I should start skating.
C: My uncle got me into it.
Right, Kyle Myles, who shot photos for this interview. So what do you like about skateboarding?
X: I like learning tricks and making new friends.
C: There’s no rules to it.
Both good answers. Do you guys watch videos? I’m curious if your generation even watches skate videos.
X: We do.
C: My favorite is
Mindfield
.
X: I don’t know what mine is, it’s one that Joey showed me.
Who’s in it?
X: I don’t know, that’s the thing haha. It’s an older one.
Do you know names of pro skaters? Who do you like watching?
C: Gilbert Crockett, Caleb McNeely, and Ronnie Sandoval.
X: I’m blanking now. Evan Smith, I like his style and bag of tricks.
How much do you feel like Instagram has influenced your skateboarding?
X: Honestly, a lot. If I see that my friend or some random kid posted a sick trick it’s like, “ah I need to get better.”
Interesting, so you look at it like fuel for competition?
X: Yeah, I guess. And it inspires me to get better. Also, I think it’s fun to post clips in general.
Do you find yourself worried about trends that you see on IG?
X: No.
C: I don’t pay attention to it too much.
Tell me your favorite trick to do, and your favorite trick to see.
C: I like back 5-0’s, and crooks.
X: I’ll name three I like to do. I like back disasters, fakie 5-0 pivot, and I also like frontside flips. Tricks that I like to see be done, I saw this really sick switch frontside flip done down this set today. That was sick. Buttery frontside flips, I like that. And I’d say nollie flips.
What are you sick of seeing in skateboarding?
X: Skinny pants.
Do you even see that? I feel like everyone is wearing baggy pants.
X: When I see someone wearing them it’s uncomfortable for me.
What about you Cullen?
C: People wearing Empyres.
What are Empyres?
C and X in unison: Zumiez pants.
X: Oh, I have another one. I don’t like seeing people do heelflips. It’s only cool if they’re buttery.
What’s wrong with heelflips?
X: I can’t do them.
Where do you want to see skateboarding go?
C: Back to the mid 2000’s. I wish the old Alien Workshop team was still around.
We all wish that.
X: Right now I’m getting into more chunkier shoes, I’m getting into that style. So the era when DC and éS were making OG shoes.
What turns you guys onto that era of skateboarding?
X: Swag haha. I guess I just started wearing that one day. I started with the camo pants honestly.
C: Older skate videos that my uncle showed me.
What music are you guys listening to right now?
X: I like trap music and rock music, like The Clash, Clutch, Black Sabbath, Metallica, Bold Thrower, Slayer, and trap music I found through Instagram. I latched on to it.
C: I guess alternative rock. Title Fight.
Are you into hardcore?
C: Is that really hardcore? Some of their songs are a bit chiller. It’s probably more like hard rock.
Favorite shoes to skate right now?
C: Converse. I like skating in Chucks.
X: Lately I’ve been skating Dunks, they’re nice but they’re too expensive. I really like Blazers and Half Cabs too. I skate whatever really.
Who’s the best dog in the world?
X: Indy Stevenson.
Wrong answer.
X: She bit me this morning. She drew blood.
And that’s why she’s the best?
X: Yeah, exactly.
Watch Cullen and Xan’s welcome parts in Vu Skateshop’s
Xan & Cullen’s Pack of Lies.

================================================================================

What’s good homie how are things?
Good, chillin.
Your name is Brendan, not Brandon, does that get confusing? I am pretty confused.
Yes, it gets them confused, but I tell them to shut the hell up, it’s not hard, it’s fucking Brendan.
So you’re from America right?
Um mostly.
Where abouts?
That would be Springfield, Mass.
How old were you the first time you got drunk?
Hmm around 15, I guess.
Nice, I was 4. How old are you now?
22.
You moved around the last few months from MA to VA, and sounds like you got extradited back to Mass for some crime spree?
Yeah, something like that. Binging one night, and stealing Christmas decorations, my friend was sad his house wasn’t decorated, so we decorated it.
Was he hyped?
He never got to see it, the cops removed everything before he woke up.
What’s your least favorite spot in Mass?
Easy, STINKY (aka piss ledges).
What’s your favorite spot?
I am gonna have to say UMASS.
What is your favorite and least favorite moment on a recent skate trip?
That’s pretty easy, drinking and skating at the snake run, and checkin out the sketchy buildings. And the snake run as the least favorite too, with stateys aiming shotguns at us, not so fun.
I would have thought getting a bottle to the head would have not been so fun.
Nah, the worst part about that, was the bottle didn’t break.
Alright, so you’re movin out West in January, what’s up with that?
Bachinsky invited some East Coast homies to stay out in LA for a few months, help pay some bills and shred, so I needed to get a J.O.B, but yeah hyped to go out West and kick it for a bit.
Any homies you wanna spread some love to?
Fo Sho, Mom and Dad, Luke@thecollectiveclothing, Dustin@torktrux, Glen@ defiantwheels, Dan & Frank@theory, Andy@dcshoes, VA beach homies, my Western Mass homies, Rondo, Rob Collins, Nate Greenwood, John Sant, my brother and sister, Mikey P, Greg Sanoki, and you, for the fucking fantastical questions, and of course Hoodlum Skateboards and all the homies. Peace.

================================================================================

Interview and photos by Henry Viswat.
How old are you now and how old were you when you first started skating?
I’m 15 now, I guess I started skating when I was 2, but I wasn’t really doing anything besides pushing and rolling around. When I was 6 or 7 I started trying tricks and landed my first kickflip at 10.
Who influenced you to start skating at such an early age?
I don’t really know, since I was only 2, but my dad skates and he always had boards lying around the house. He used to take me to the skate park as a baby to watch and I guess I enjoyed it enough that one day he decided to put me on a board.
That’s becoming much more common for a dad to get his son into skateboarding.
For sure, my dad had a huge influence on my skating in my more formative years. Without him, I definitely would not have picked up a board so early.
You’ve amassed a pretty serious line up of sponsors from Santa Cruz, Etnies, and now Red Bull. How did you start skating for these companies?
I had a few sponsors along the way, mostly from local contests, but the first true sponsor I had was Santa Cruz. I went to California one week to skate with my friend who lives out there now. I was doing my thing and one day the Powell guys at the park asked me if I wanted to get some shop boards from them. Of course I was down but before anything truly happened with Powell, my friend Ronnie Gordon spoke to Andrew Cannon and I got flowed from Santa Cruz. From that, everything else sort of figured itself out. I’m truly grateful for everything Ronnie, Andrew and the Santa Cruz guys have done for me over the years! They’re killing it lately. I’m stoked to be a part of that family over there and excited for what’s to come.
Do you feel any added pressure now that you’re joining the ranks of Red Bull?
This may sound awful to say but no, not really. At this point in my life I only worry about skateboarding. Going out every day and trying to film something, trying to learn new tricks and just skating with my friends. If I continue with that, the rest will fall into place. My sponsors have been pretty responsive to that so far.
Have you given any thought on how you’ll continue to progress in the industry in the next five, ten, twenty plus years?
Well first, I want to work hard on putting together a video part. With the summer coming I’m getting out into the streets more which has been good for me. But over the following years, I intend to focus more on filming better video parts along with some contests.
How do you feel about the contest scene?
I’m looking forward to them starting up again. It allows me to see all of my friends in one place and to skate new things. I miss the community aspect the most, seeing everyone together and stoked to skate is pretty electric. When I go I’m not so focused on the results, I’m mostly focused on skating hard and doing my best.
Is the end goal joining the US Olympic Skateboarding team?
I mean I would do it if they asked me to join the team but no, it’s not something I am actively looking to pursue at the moment. I really just try to skate whatever is in front of me.
Whether it’s transitions or handrails, you always seem down to skate it and have a trick ready. Where do you find all this energy and fearlessness?
I think most of it comes from just being a kid. I get so stoked about everything I’m skating, or the tricks that I’m trying, that I just keep skating even when I’m sore or tired. I just can’t help myself. As to the fearlessness, I don’t know, I guess I just don’t think about it. The anxiety of not doing a trick is worse to me than slamming. Some battles you can’t win however.
You carry yourself very well and never seem to get too mad when a trick is not working out.
You think so? I don’t know, I feel like my attitude is bad sometimes, but I have been trying to work on it more. I don’t get as mad as I used to, but I was never one to really throw my board around, try to break it, or throw temper tantrums. I mean, don’t get me wrong I can definitely get angry, but I try to keep it cool now rather than blow up.
Most people wouldn’t peg you as a 15 year old, your style is hard charging and fast compared to that awkward kid style so many are plagued with.
Well thank you. I guess it comes from the East Coast and the older guys I’ve watched skate growing up and always tried to emulate. They have such amazing style, even down to their clothes.
Of course. The baggy jeans, the bulky DCs, head high fs noseslides, it’s iconic.
Exactly, I don’t try to copy in the slightest because that’s wack, but obviously it has had an effect on my skating and my own personal style. And those guys looked so sick doing it, how can you not love the East Coast style?
Has growing up on the East Coast influenced your skating in other ways?
I think growing up skating on the East Coast everything is so much gnarlier. The ground is crusty, the rails are taller, the landings have cracks. No spot is ideal and because of that, skaters have to get better at just dealing. You can complain about it or just embrace the challenge. If you do embrace it, all the spots everywhere else are easy. Plus, because everything is rugged, everything looks cooler too.
Any last words or shout outs?
Yes, thank you to my dad Paul and my mom Monica for supporting the dream. Thank you to everyone at Santa Cruz, Red Bull, Etnies, Independent Trucks, OJ Wheels, Bronson, Mob griptape, ALLIKNOWISGOON, and The Skateboard Academy of Philadelphia for everything they do for me, and thank you to everyone else that has helped me over the past few years. There are way too many to thank and if I forgot anyone I don’t want them to get mad.

================================================================================

Where are you from? Where do you usually skate?
Yokosuka, Japan. I often skate Umikaze Park.
Do you usually travel much? What countries have you skated?
I love traveling. I like taking the train to far places and skating spots all over Japan. Outside of Japan I’ve been to California, four countries around Europe during the DC tour, and Taiwan about five times now.
Do you like skating at night?
Not really. I got work early in the morning so I’d rather take the nights easy.
How has skating in Japan changed since you started?
People are more connected with social media now.
What is the hardest part about skating in Japan?
The police has been more strict with skaters lately. I’ve heard of people getting fines for skating in Shibuya
If you could skate anywhere past or present where would it be?
San Francisco or Barcelona. I would love to skate there no matter the time period.
Any advice or tips for American skaters who hope to go to Japan and skate?
Go easy on the Strong Zeros (Japanese wine-coolers equivalent to Four Lokos in the states).
I read your dad skated and would build you stuff to skate at home. Did you learn how to make stuff too? Do you ever fix up spots?
My dad used to make obstacles in the yard that I’d help him make. I love making things and would like to help fix up some spots in the near future.
Do you drive in Japan, or just skate / subway?
I don’t drive. I primarily take the train.
Who are some of your favorite skaters?
Shin Sanbongi. I saw him skate at Umikaze often.
Best skate trip you’ve been on?
The DC trip to Europe. I remember not having any money when I landed and couldn’t buy a toothbrush because I couldn’t withdraw cash. I was influenced by being around the skate culture in Europe and seeing the mindset and movements of the guys on the team. Thanks to that I am able to look at myself and appreciate skating in a new light.

================================================================================

How has Wu-Tang changed your life?
I wouldn’t say Wu-Tang has necessarily changed my life, but it is nice knowing no matter what new bullshit may come out on the radio, I can always throw on
Enter the 36 Chambers
and be siked.
How did you start skating?
My little brother asked my cousin to borrow his board for a while. One day a bunch of my friends went down to the school to skate. I took that board, and ever since then I’ve been skating.
What do you know about hemp?
I don’t know much about hemp, but from what you tell me it’s really useful for a lot of different things. I’m down for the cause.
Who is homie, Kevin Winters?
He’s the filmer homie. He’s the sickest. I’ve yet to meet someone dedicated to skateboarding as him.
When did you get on NJ?
Probably like 2 years ago. It feels awesome to be part of such a sick shop. Steve and Chris are truly down for skateboarding. It’s sick.
Don’t you have a spot fixing kit with signs and bondo in your trunk?
You never know when you’re going to be coming up on a spot that may only be skateable with a sign, or a crack that needs to be bondoed. I’m just always trying to skate new spots, so stuff like this makes it easier.
Favorite trick in a pool?
I seen John do these layback 5-0s. That shit looks so crazy.
Most favorite skate spot?
The Trenton banks in downtown is my favorite spot for sure. Everything about that spot is sick. There’s mad opportunity to get creative.
Why won’t Kev make a video?
I was really hoping somebody could tell me. Kev really though, you should make a video.
Where are you from?
I was born in Toronto, Canada, but moved when I was one. After a couple of years of moving around, my parents settled down in Hopewell, New Jersey. That’s where I mainly grew up.
Last words?
A wise man whose name I forget once told me, “It’s not what you do, it’s how you do it.”

================================================================================

What’s your favorite place in Baltimore to not skate?
Well I was gonna say The Wire
spot cause I really don’t like skating there. But it’s not very good for sitting since there a lot of mosquitoes and nothing much to look at. So I’m not really sure. The best spots to not skate have rough ground, a store close by, and maybe close to the water so there’s something pretty to look at.
You have a bet going with Teta, the first to cut his hair loses. Who will win this bet and why?
I will win this bet for sure. Teta is too much of a pretty boy to have really long hair. Also, the loser has to take the winner out to dinner and I’m much too cheap for that.
How do you keep your noodly figure?
Well I dod crossfit for at least 3 hours a day and ride my bike for at least 5 miles. Then there’s my very lean, raw organic diet of Natty Boh and weed.
So how often do you eat?
One to ten times a day…wait did you say eat or jerk off?
Who is the cum dragon?
The Cum Dragon is a magical love filled dragon that loves sex/fucking/love making/cumming. There is no hate in his body, just love and cum.
Dykes wanted me to ask you about the time he gave you pink eye. What happened?
Well a bunch of the Bohtz crew took a trip to Miami last winter, and we were staying in one room. At one point there were 9 of us. So it became a fart party, someone was just farting at all times, just clam baking the shit out of the room. So I end up getting some sort of eye infection, I assume from all the farting. I got super bummed cause I know what’s going to happen when I tell everyone, and sure enough they all start making fun of me, and I’m all like, “Fuck you guys! It’s your fault for fucking farting so much!” In the end, it was not pink eye and everyone had a good laugh.
Are you happy that you have become future Zach? (watch Behind the Griptape with Zach Lyones for the back story)
Man, it’s really crazy, anytime I look at a mirror, I just see my brother. But yeah, I’m down with it.
Ever have a bad day in paradise?
I fucking hope not.

================================================================================

Who made the video?
The mastermind behind this project was Max Zahradnik.
How long did it take?
It has been almost three years since the first video. We made the trailer last
Focus
tradeshow to show we were still around.
What did you do for the premiere?
I couldn’t find any venues that weren’t booked. I found a very old VFW building and the owner’s kid skated, so we just did it there. Thanks to Sean and Steve Cameron for supplying the huge screen.
What was up with all those TVs in the front?
Max and I live by doing different shit. We were supposed to do a huge pile of them and have the projector in the middle. Art?
Did you go on any overboard spot missions?
Max discovered an underground tunnel. That visit was very dope.
What are some of your favorite skate videos?
The Toy Machine videos,
Video Days
, it really depends on my mood. An Antihero video will always get me going. Old Consolidated vids. Shit, an H-Street video I have on VHS does the trick as well.
What kind of music is in the video?
I didn’t want your typical 70’s retro songs or like Arcade Fire indie bullshit. Videos are so boring these days. I’m not saying they are not good. Just, I’m not into the polished masterpiece. In
Modern Needs
, we used some underground bands that most people don’t even care about. For this project, I just really wanted to use NOISE bands, because that’s what I listen to before I get to a spot anyway. It sounds like your car is going to explode. Your speakers are going to blow out. Straight up static.
What parts were you excited about?
Everyone on the team pushed it for the video. We are a fucking small brand who most don’t give a shit about because the hype train hasn’t picked us up.
How glad are you that the video is done?
I can’t express how awesome Max did on it. It is nice to go out to this kid’s crusty lair and work on the video, pick out music, and then we have a premiere.
Last words?
Thanks for the interview I’m stoked on
Skate Jawn
just because you dudes like skating and want to do a zine. Making the effort is rad as hell. Life is life, go with the flow.

================================================================================

What’s your book going to be about?
The book’s all gonna be about my life, you know? Really you’ll have to hear something, like a few things from the book, to be able to understand what I’m talking about. I’ve already writ 472 pages of my book. It’s fuckin like you know, I’m into it. The book is already finished, and I already started to write the end. Now I’m writing the start of the book, so people will understand how shit got so fucked up. So right now I’m at the end of the book. I just wrote the last chapter up and it’s called “Escape to the streets. It starts from the 16th of February 1998…
I had to leave my father to live on his own. I felt like a piece of shit, but I had to escape. That shit was just getting too fucked up. My brother had too many debts with the local drug dealers and they now had pushed the debt onto me, only because I was his fuckin brother. And at 15 years old and living on a chancellors estate with your fuckin retired father only receiving a state pension, 1,500 pounds is quite a fuckin hard thing to find. I only ran away as they said, the drug dealers that is, “We’re gonna fuckin smash your fuckin head in, and kill ya to death with baseball bats.” I was scared. I was living in a small town of England, where there was no place to hide, with the threat of something like that happening to me for a problem that was not mine, neither my fathers. I knew that the drug dealers were serious as that I witnessed their violence many times previously. Like the time when one of my top school mates owed the cunts just 18 quid, 18 pounds for some hash. He was only two days late for the deal so the cunts went and picked him up on his way home from fuckin school in a chapmobile. They took him to an apartment and gave him a shoe-in, which is like a kick-in, then stamped on the back of his head so fuckin hard it got stuck between the fuckin floorboards and the radiator. They then pissed on him and poured bleach into his ear. That small town of England, Lester, was so fuckin violent, full of smackheads, crackheads, alkies, glue sniffing gas head petrol fuckin inhalers. You fuckin name it. But the main problem was the skin, Scarface-want-to-be, drug dealers. Not my kind of a town, as all I wanted to do was ride my skateboard. I had to say goodbye and lie to my father, you know, that there was no problem with it at all. In the back of my mind I knew that my pop always knew. The craziest thing was I was actually excited about being homeless and running away from home and hitting the road all on my own, like a rolling stone with no place but the streets to call home. My father made me ham and cheese sandwiches, he gave me twenty pounds. We then said our farewells. It was a cold morning still dark with frost on the pavements and roads. I had a small bag containing an extra set of clothes, a knife and the sandwiches, my father had made me, as I made my way to the Hickley train station hoping that no cunt would see me trying to escape that fuckin shit hole. This time I was lucky only ten minutes for the train to arrive. The train arrived and all I remember feeling is free. So far so good, maybe not, maybe yes. Lester station was like a fuckin airport…
It goes on man, it’s all my life story. I was only fifteen years old man I just ran away from home. I’m twenty six. My brother ripped off a load of drug dealers and started using my name to get credit cards and stuff and then when I tried to get a bank account I wasn’t allowed to get a bank account. It’s like he’d already fuckin bummed my life away. And I got arrested by the police, and then I’m in the courtroom and they’re saying, “Right your gonna go to prison” Like scrap, I’ve just been drinking on the street, you arrest me for being drunk and disorderly, why am I going to prison for first offense? Then they find out all this shit, my brother has been using my name. I fucking ran away man, and when I did that shit, I got hit by a car. So I started wanting to write a book you know about my life story.
How did you get hit by a car?
I’ve been hit by loads of trucks. I got hit by a truck in England. I used to live in the back of a fuckin, ya know, you know what a carpet is? A carpet.
A carpet?
A carpet, uh… carpet.
Like in a house?
Yeah like you put in a house, carpet. It’s like soft shit you put on the floor.
Yeah, I know what carpet is.
I fuckin found this carpet factory, I was like “Yo!” Fuckin go around the back of this carpet factory they have this big dumpster, yeah. I open that shit up, all these odd cuts of carpet, you know, left over pieces. I look in the back of the fuckin dumpster I’m like “Yo.” I take my beanie out my head and fuckin, fuckin, wrap myself in all these pieces of carpet, real yo yo yo, really wrapped up real fuckin nice. Tired, I sit there some time smoking weed, drinkin a fuckin nice beer, laughing at how shit, the fuckin the world is. I sit here and fuckin geezers all fuckin pissed on booze walking past here going, hahaha they’re laughing, they’re going home. When it comes to paying rent, I’m fuckin… I feel like a ten year old boy, wrapped up in carpet smoking a joint drinking a heavy can of lager. Honestly, honestly I really love living on the streets.
How did you start writing?
I got hit by a car so I started wanting to write a book. I got my fuckin head smashed by a car, I couldn’t see any more. And, Ali Boulala told me to write a book he was like “Mills…”
Ali Boulala gave you the idea?
Of course, yeah we were all living in his house up real near to Melbourne. They was all staying at his house Rowley fucked off to Australia. But then he (Ali) had the motor bike accident.
Do you know what’s happening with that?
I don’t fuckin know. I haven’t really heard from him, all I know is he had us at his house. It was like “Yo, what’s up man?” It was like some kind of fuckin, Flip team house. I just said to Ali like “What the fuck can I do, I can’t skate any more” He was all like “Yo Mills why don’t you write a book” and that was it. And then Ewan, is like “Yo just write a book Mills” and I started to write a book.
Do you read skate mags? Do you follow the skate mags and all that shit?
No I don’t really like skate mags cause they’re all wank.
Yeah man there’s fucking ads for the army, and movies, in Thrasher. What the fuck?
I don’t even like that cause they think they’re all underground hardcore skateboarding, but they’re not shit. I want to see a fuckin skateboard magazine that’s got the fuckin real shit on the street. Real people you know not just a fuckin skateboard magazine but like maybe someone who’s got nothing to do with skateboarding at all, like a homeless guy at MACBA, you read an interview with him and you find out about his shit.
Yeah that’s just part of skating, living on the streets.
You know the black guy at MACBA yeah, comes here with fuckin shoes on his feet, he wears like sandals and he’s doing like frontside 180 ollies on the flat,
Yeah, like I’m trying to start this magazine…
Yeah, Little Sister that’s the best shit, You got Big Brother, fuck Big Brother man, Little Sister man. What’s better looking a big brother or a little sister?
Yeah everyone likes a little sister, man.
I always love little sisters, but they got to be eligible for it, hehe (burp). If you want help on your magazine man I’ll help you, bang. If you want to make a magazine I’m up for writing for you. 100% mate, 100%.
I live in Madrid right now man, but I think I’m about to be done with that. I go to college but like… fuck college.
Fuck everything man.
Sasha: Do you want to see my disappearing cigarette trick?
Mills: Yeah, this is good, this is good
Sasha: Watch very closely, ready… it’s gonna go, it’s gonna go
(snap) and it’s gone. (snap) And it’s back again.
Impressive, I have to say.
Mills: I’m really lucky you know, I’ve known a lot of people like Tom Penny and all theses other fuckin skater kids. I’m really lucky that I know all these fuckin guys they’re all my fucking friends and shit.
Where did you meet Tom Penny?
1992, something like that yeah it’s a long time man, loads of time man, we grew up skateboarding together man bang, smashing everything.
What’s Tom up to right now?
He’s living in Argentina, Buenos Aires. He’s got a child out there and he’s got a wife. It’s weird man you know, shit changes.
What’s one of your favorite things about being a low life, just living on the streets and doing this shit?
No, no, I like it, I love it so much cause you get to learn the real quality of people, you know what I mean? You get to really understand people. People you see on the street wearing nice slacks and shoes, and they see you rocking some old school shit and they look at you like a piece of shit. Like one time I was skating at the clock-nine (a nine-stair near a clock) I was dressed in like a long fur coat, I was wearing like some fuckin super skin tight trousers. I didn’t even look like a skateboarder. I fuckin sat on my skateboard and all theses mutherfuckers thought that I stole a skateboard. I didn’t look nothing like a skateboarder. They looked at me, and they were all trying to ollie the stairs, I just fuckin ran up first go, bang, pressure flip, snap. Pressure flipped the stairs first go. That’s one of my star tricks, I’ve got that every time, any spot I’ve got the pressure flip first go. So I got it bang yeah. I hurt their feelings. They thought I was an asshole. Yeah they thought I was a homeless shit bag, but I fuckin smashed it to em man, I’ll smash any cunt man, any time.
You’re still pushing around man right? I mean you’ve been hit by trucks and stuff but…
Of course, yeah man I’m like Rocky fuckin twelve or something.
What kind of skating are you into, what kind of shit do you like doing on the board?
I like skating with my friends and having a good time… I like people who smile and stuff you know not guys who make faces like … or …
Yeah there are people doing this shit who don’t even seem like they’re having fun, just stressing or some shit.
Yeah, wankers man. Have a good fuckin time cause you know what? You’re gonna be fuckin dead one day. So why can’t you just fuckin smile. Yeah you know his hard flip was a little loser style wasn’t it? I don’t give a fuckin shit. Everyone’s got to be happy. Be happy all the time and stop dissing people. Really, for fucks sake everybodys got to be happy. Have a fuckin laugh we’re all gonna be dead one day.
Yo PJ you got a cigarette for me?
Sasha: What’s the coolest ward in a hospital?
PJ: Hahaha
Sasha: The ultra sound ward.
PJ: yeah, yeah, yeah
Sash: What do you get if you put a rubber next to the window?
PJ: ha
Sasha: condomsation
What was it like growing up skating in England?
I was the only fuckin skater, you know? So I was whack, You know? Skateboarding was shit, you know, like skateboarding’s nothing. I whipped down the street, I love skateboarding man. I’ve always loved skateboarding. Ever since I was nine years old, I always had a skateboard, I love to skateboard. People don’t understand like, I mean when I first kickflipped three stairs in like nineteen ninety fuckin one, or something 90, 91, 92 nah, maybe 93. I kick flipped this three stair and they were all like … Tom Penny got a heel flip and all these school girls were like … hehehahaha
You were offered a pro sponsorship right?
Oh, I could have turned pro yeah. But I didn’t feel good enough, cause my switch shit is really bad. I didn’t feel ready, I didn’t mind taking free boards but like, I looked at all the tricks that everyone else was doing and I just felt like… I don’t want to be the joke. Don’t want to be wank you know, I don’t want to be like the gay pro you know, it’s crap. So then I kind of got bummed out, and then the company they really hated me. I just went “Fuck you then, you wankers” Yeah then I went skateboarding. I end up down at the bar like fuckin drinking loads of booze, fuckin getting mad and fighting people, robbing people in the street and doing all this fuckin stupid whack stuff, you know stealing cars cause I thought it was cool. Stealing cars is cool, yeah? Like, what a wanker.
What is cool then?
I don’t know, I was just young, you know trying to show off to the rest of the lads. When I was 17 or 18, I started to grow up and I thought, what the fuck am I doing? Going into people’s houses trying to steal their stuff, doing all this fake West side stuff. I’m a fuckin white lad from England. Why am I trying to be West side. It really seriously makes you realize these guys are like thirty years old now, and they’re probably still doing the same shit. They wanna kill me cause I ran away from the clique, you know what I’m saying. My god man. Honestly be careful of strange people. Honestly.
March 7, 2008 MW/MM

================================================================================

Photos by CJ Harker. Interview by Broke Bois.
Let’s start off with some basic info, where are you from? How old are you?
I’m 26 years old from Brielle, New Jersey. Located at the Jersey Shore, minus the GTL and hair gel. I’ve been skating for four years and surfing my entire life. I moved to Philly last year, and I’ve been skating FDR a ton and I work at a school in West Chester.
What made you start surfing at such a young age?
My dad started pushing my sisters and I into waves when we were still in diapers. He grew up surfing at the Manasquan Inlet and that’s where we all learned. He surfed professionally, traveled the world, and recently was inducted into the NJ Surfing Hall of Fame. Yeah, my dad is OG. So is my mom. She doesn’t surf, she just chills on the beach, paints, and practices drum rolls for her jazz band.
What was it like growing up with a professional surfer as a dad?
It just meant that surfing was an inevitable part of life. It was really easy to fall in love with it at a young age. My dad gifted me my first winter wetsuit in February on my eight birthday and then we went surfing that cold afternoon. Northeast surfers who surf through the winter are tough as nails. I always felt comfortable in the water. The ‘fear of the unknown’ that freaks so many people out in the ocean, eventually made me feel at peace and in a way more connected. From trying to keep up with my dad at a young age, I learned how to confront those feelings of fear.Which is a mentality that I think helps with skating. We went surfing in Puerto Rico when I was a kid, stopped in a general store, and I saw a postcard with my dad’s surfing photo on it. I always felt proud of my dad as a surfer, he was a pro rad dad.
What are the few things that you love about skating that are different than surfing?
Skaters are different than surfers. I have some solid homies who surf, but I’ve met so many rad people through skating. I like that skating is more of a social thing, because if you’re chilling when you’re out skating, there’s room for conversation and goofing around. Surfers are set to a more serious pace when in the water, and it’s not until you’re on the beach that social norms come back into play. I don’t want to talk to anyone when I’m focused in the ocean. Sort of like when I’m focused skating. Also the ocean is so dynamic, which is all of the fun and challenge. But I like the consistency that skating provides. The ramp, the wall, the concrete never changes like the wave does.
Word on the street is you just won FDR’s first ever women’s competition. How does it feel to be the first woman to win an event at FDR?
It’s an amazing feeling for sure. The energy that day was insane and the turnout was epic. It was a well deserved day for everyone, but especially the ladies. It was my first skate competition and I didn’t really know what to expect. Everyone was in such high spirits it made the competition way too much fun. Everyone was getting after it heavy from the first heat to the finals. The energy was there and we were all feeding off it. It was a wild ride of a day. Big thank you to Gloria, Ryps, and the squads who contributed to put on this phenomenal event, and a huge shout out to all the competitors!
Do you feel like women have a big enough platform to help each other learn and progress?
Definitely. We live in a super unique time where connection and building relationships with each other is essential so that the world doesn’t blow up soon. When we use things like social media platforms to squad up, help out and support one another, that’s where true knowledge and progress is born. I see a lot of girls doing this with each other and it’s so rad. Before I moved to Philly, my girls and I would use Instagram as a way to get girls of all ages to come skate the park. We work for a surf school called Pink Pineapple where the owner Becky uses the ‘girls teaching girls/babes on waves’ business model, so our turnout was sick. Young girls started coming to the park all the time. When I go home and visit NJ I get to see the lasting impact on our community and how many young female rippers are on the horizon or just having fun.
When learning to skate, did you find yourself skating by yourself or with a  group  of friends?
When I started skating four years ago, it was always a solo mission. I would feel a little weird at times because I’m a very social person. One day when skating alone, I bumped into some old friends I hadn’t seen in a long time, Steve and Fitz. Those are my dudes. From that day forward we made a group chat and when I wanted to skate, I’d send them a quick text. All you need is a couple good friends. They taught me a lot, and I could feel my progression happening every time we’d skate. That’s my squad at heart. Down the line I met friends and fellow co-workers like Allie, Amelia, and Rachel. That femal energy made a huge difference. The homies in Philly are quality folks too. Shout out Brokebois!
Where do you pull inspiration from on days that you are feeling uninspired?
I like going on walks from time to time, especially right now with all the flowers blooming. Reading and writing, too. I try to journal a lot. I like reading back on my old journals for some reason. I like reading fiction, I’m a big Stephen King fan. I listen to music and paint with water colors. Painting with water colors is oddly soothing. Even if your paintings look as shitty as mine.

================================================================================

Photos by Dennes Ferreira
Interview by Jawn D
Where are you from?
Vila Pedreira, Esteio (RS).
How long have you been skating?
Thirteen years.
How did you start skating?
In my neighborhood, on the paving stone.
You from south Brazil?
Yes, from the metropolitan region, close to Porto Alegre.
What are the different parts of Brazil like for someone who doesn’t know?
It’s tense, but inspiring.
How much Acai do you eat?
As much as I can, acai is essential, gives you energy.
Do you ever go to the rainforest?
I haven’t had the opportunity yet, but it’s inspiring and original.
If you could go anywhere in America Where would you go? Why?
Philladelphia. I like their culture, real skateboard.
Where you wanna go besides America?
Barcelona and all of Europe.
What would your dream spot be like?
It would be like Love Park.
What do you do when you’re not skating?
I listen to music, play video games, play soccer and basketball. I like going to the beach too.
How did you get hooked up with 550?
Through member friends, like Bruno, Dwayne and Preza.
Who’s the biggest American skater in Brazil?
Gino, Keenan, Guy, Kalis, Koston, Karl Watson, and Henry Sanchez.
Who are some of your favorite Brazililian skaters?
Tiago, Rodrigo Tx, Patrick Vidal, Gui da Luz, and Rodrigo Petersen.
Do you have a local skate shop?
Sunset Skateshop, MKD, Dreams and Matriz.
Is it hard to get product out there?
Having friends living abroad it’s easier nowadays.
Who else hooks you up? How’d you get those connects?
DC shoes, Represent skateboards, Core Bearings, Sense trucks, Sunset skateshop. From My brand manager Marcus Cida, my uncle Didi, and some close friends.
What do you think public opinion of skaters is out there?
Prejudice with those who skate on the street, fanaticism with the Olympic athletes, haha.
Any thanks / shoutouts?
I would like to thank Dan from 550 Wheels, Skate Jawn for the opportunity, and everyone who helps.

================================================================================

How has isolation in New York been treating you?
I don’t know, it’s been interesting. Every day is different and has its ups and downs, but the other night I was kind of tripping because even though the whole world is in turmoil and some people’s situations are much worse than mine, I’ve been the most comfortable I’ve ever been in my whole life and same goes for my mother and my brothers. Kind of a lot to explain but it would have happened at this point even without this pandemic going on. I just feel very blessed.
Yeah man things have been pretty hectic lately but I’m glad you’ve been well. With a lot of time on your hands now, what has been keeping you motivated to do things like make music?
I don’t know, some days are really hard to do anything and I feel myself going back down into a dark path, but making art is the only thing that is really keeping me sane. If I don’t make anything then I’m really just falling down back where I was before. Finally starting to figure things out and what I’ve got to do to maintain. A lot of days there is no motivation at all but I know that it comes in waves and some days I gotta just chill.
Yeah definitely gotta take things one day at a time. Since music has been your outlet, how did your band Blair come to life?
I don’t know I would always half jokingly say “we should start a band” but also be serious enough to try it out with people, but no one ever really took it seriously I think. Except for one time we were at my friend Sam’s house and Nico lived there at the time and that same situation happened. I think Paul, Tucker, Nico, and I were all there and that happened then we planned a day to go to Paul’s studio and jam and stuck with it. I always loved making music and would rap or sing on beats that friends made but always really wanted to kind of try creating it all from scratch. I didn’t grow up playing anything, except for my grandmother’s grand piano a little bit, but I never took lessons so being in a band definitely seemed like a good opportunity to learn more about music in general and grow with it. It also just seemed fun as hell.
That’s sick that it finally all came together for you. Do you want to shout out any artists that have influenced the music you guys have been putting out?
Yeah I’m very happy that it worked out, I think it was meant to be. We all have our different inspirations that just go into it subconsciously. Definitely a lot of 90s emo, punk, and hardcore stuff but also a lot of r&b, rap, jazz, and funk influences too so that’s hard to really say. I do want to give a shoutout to some fellow young artists who I think are positively influencing and motivating not just me but a lot of young people, especially black people, by using their voice to talk about their struggle, black liberation, mental health issues and much more, while also just slappin’ up, and I just think those topics are very important and should be talked about more in today’s music. But yeah shoutouts to
Ade Hakim
,
Medhane
,
Navy Blue
,
Mike
,
Mavi
,
Baby Sosa
,
keiyyA
,
Slauson Malone
,
Caleb Giles
,
Taphari
,
and
Mal Devisa
. That’s just to name some, check em out if you haven’t already for sure.
Hell yeah man it’s an interesting combination of inspiration but it seems to work really well. Also, the people reading have to check out those artists for sure. They’re on their way to do some really big things. Continuing with the subject of Blair, I dig the new song called Nothing Helps. Can we expect any more new music from you guys coming soon
?
Thanks man, I’m glad you like it! That song’s kinda old at this point too. The process is longer than I first expected to record and put out a song. But yes we have another song that will be dropping very soon and many more that are on the way! Can’t wait to put em out.
That’s awesome I’m very hyped to hear it! Were you excited to have your songs used in the second 917 video and The Homies Network video? I thought they worked well with the skating.
Yeah that was cool, it’s awesome seeing it and watching em at the premieres. It gets me hyped but I also just get super critical of the music since it’s living in something else. I could have done more to make those songs better but I also know that’s part of it and we grow with it so I’m not tripping now. But at the time I remember being like “fuck those songs suck.”
It’s sick to see that you also put out a song and video with ACAB. It’s a lot different from your sound with Blair. Any input on that?
That song with ACAB was super random. I started fucking around making real beats on Ableton a couple of months ago. Medhane is actually who helped me out by showing me some useful tips on Ableton, so shout outs to him. When I first made it I thought it would be cool with two people rapping with different sounding voices back and forth and then when I was playin it I was like oh shit ACAB should just get on this with me cause I didn’t think anyone else would want the beat. So we made it in a couple weeks. I would go to their place after work with my laptop and we would write and I would add little things to the beat here and there. It’s kind of my first real beat. I’m happy with how it came out. But we finally recorded it like the day before quarantine really started, on a mic I bought that day cause my other one was kind of shitty, and I just mixed it myself. The video I just really wanted to do. When I first made the beat I just envisioned that shot with us running and I knew we were gonna eventually go on lockdown so I just got an impulse to make a video cause I knew there was a chance we wouldn’t be able to for a long time. I just always wanted to make a music video so that was a lot of fun.
It looks like Humble made a quick reappearance and you guys made a compilation of submitted songs. When can we expect to hear volume two, and what else can we hope to see from Humble in the near future?
For Humble we want to work on volume two very soon. Don’t know exactly when though, maybe after coronavirus clears out a bit or something. Expect to see some new Humble clothing and more very soon! Very excited for the future of Humble, as well as Blair, and just creating things in general and sharing it all.
What else have you been up to aside from music? Have you been able to get out and skate?
I skated like five times with Max Palmer who I live with and we’d go to this empty court not too far from us. Last time someone brought out a little box and it was chill and everyone was spread out. Still feels weird being outside, especially skating. Don’t want to fall on the ground or touch it at all, but I usually still have my mask on. Don’t really think I should be doing it much cause I have asthma and I lost my pump, but I think if you are being smart, safe, and thinking about others, you can skate if you find a nice and mellow spot.
Any advice to help people stuck inside during quarantine?
For advice to help people out, just remember that this is only temporary and to stay strong. Some days are harder than others and some situations are harder than others but every day just try to do things to better yourself as a person and that are healthy for you. It’s one step at a time but just try to find healthy motivation in whatever it is that works best for you and we will get through this. Also remember to think of others and check in on loved ones. I don’t know how long this will be, but it won’t be forever and somethings just need to happen in order for other things to happen as hard as those things may be. We will get through it though.
You can listen to Blair’s music
here
.

================================================================================

fence bash p- Khalsa
What’s up? Can you hear me?
Yeah sorry, I just took a shot. It was horrible.
What do you have against vegetables?
Damn bro. Aight I think what it really is, I grew up with my parents not letting me leave the dinner table unless I had all the vegetables off my plate. I’m talking, forcing them down my throat gagging and they’re telling me I can’t leave. I think that fucked me up in the head cause now it’s literately not even a taste thing, it’s that I crunch into a vegetable and that’s what gets me. I start gagging. I have been eating a lot more vegetables lately though. A lot more. Your boy healthy.
How big is Texas?
It’s fucked up big. You can drive 8 hours from Austin and still be in Texas. It’s huge. But everywhere else is completely different then Austin. There’s Austin and then there’s Texas, for sure. Austin’s like kinda weird, pretty hip but the skate scene’s crazy.
What do you do for work and do you enjoy it?
I’m an energy efficiency technician which means I pretty much weatherize houses, blow insulation and do duct replacements. No I don’t enjoy it, it’s the worst job I’ve done in my life. I literally contemplate my life probably three days of the week in an attic.
What’s the smallest hole you’ve ever crawled in and out of?
Literally as big as my shoulders can get is it. I’ve been to ones I can’t get into and then I get Brandon or Cole to jump in those. Literally as small a hole as I can possibly fit into I’ve been in there and I’ve fucking sealed it. It’s horrible.
alley oop indy p- Khalsa
Most beers ever shot gunned?
Yeah that’s definitely gonna be on the Saint Louis trip. Me and Jeffery Gibbons were on one. We were trying to see who could shotgun the most beers in a two week span. We both definitely broke 50, I think I got 55 and he got 53. But all together on the whole two week trip there was 200 beers shotgunned. That’s definitely the most of my life.
I heard your dad’s a hip hop producer?
Yeah my dad is probably the sickest dude ever, he just loves music and is good at producing and somehow produced a song by Twista and then another one by 8ball & MJG. I think he met a couple of dudes from Bone Thugs N Harmony. He got to do a song with Krayzie Bone. He would bring me home these autographs before I even knew who the dudes were, I was young. Looking back on it, it’s so sick.
Who smokes more weed you or your dad?
Definitely my dad. He’s always smoking dude. That’s probably why I started. I remember finding like at least an ounce before I even knew what it was. Took it from him and showed my friend. We probably took like an ounce and sold it for fifty bucks. We were stoked though cause we were young and didn’t know what we were doing, and just made fifty bucks and got stoned.
Are you religious?
Nah, but I’ve had some pretty crazy religious stories… Alright dude this was fucking insane. I was probably fifteen and I went to
a contest at this church in Missouri and one of the judges was Christian Hosoi. I ended up winning the contest and he came up to me afterwards and the first thing he said to me was, “Yo you got sick stalefish,” so I was hyped. So hyped. Second thing he said to me was, “Will you pray with me?” Uhh fuck yeah I’m gonna pray with Christian Hosoi, before I even really knew what was happening I was holding his hand and we got circled, like everyone from the contest circled us and he’s like Alright close your eyes and repeat after me. So I’m standing there repeating his words. It was insane, I’ll never forget that.
What happened with Brian Sumner?
So this one I’m a little older, probably like eighteen. It’s after another contest and Brian Sumner came up to me and was just spouting this religious, I don’t even know. I just had to tell him like, nah man, I appreciate what you do with everything but please don’t push, like just don’t. It was completely different than the Hosoi thing. 100% different.
Lincoln Tunnel Nightmare?
Aight so I left Woodward by myself one weekend, it was actually go skateboarding day weekend and I wanted to spend it in New York, so I left. I had a blood clot forming in my butt cheek but I didn’t really care about it, I thought it was just a bruise and I just wanted to skate. I went to the House of Vans on go skate day and literally did a 5050 in the shallow end of the bowl there and fell, landed right on the thing in my butt, I keep forgetting what its called, but I knew right away that I fucked up. That was all that was in my head. I fucked it up again, I have to go to Woodward by myself. I didn’t eat or drink anything that day and I went to the store and got Tylenol extra strength and just hit the road and of course hit traffic in NY. So I’m in traffic and I’m already feeling weird as fuck I’m like buzzing, my hips are numb, but I’m like I just gotta get back to Woodward. I finally make it the Lincoln tunnel and at this point I knew I was fucked cause I couldn’t let go of the steering wheel. My one hand was like locked cause I was dehydrated as fuck. I call my sister, cause she’s a nurse, and I leave a voicemail and forget that I’m even on the phone. I finally make it out of the Lincoln tunnel in Jersey and pull over and I’m yelling for help, literally yelling out of my window and that’s the voicemail my sister gets. Just me yelling, “HELP! I need help call 911!” The voicemail ends and I’m still in my truck just yelling for help. The only person who comes over is this Mexican lady and she doesn’t even know what I’m talking about, literally walks away. Then another dude finally comes over and calls 911. I get picked up by an ambulance get taken to the hospital and no one knows whats wrong with me. My girlfriend, family, everyone thinks I’m dead. Fuckin crazy bro. All cause of a little bruise on my butt cheek. Worst thing ever.
How many types of inverts can you do?
Frontside invert, egg, invert, invert revert, I’ve done like six, I guess you can say seven cause I’ve done andrechts, but it’s a harder one.
Street or tran?
I like transition more, I grew up skating bowls and stuff. Started skating street later only because people are kinda more hyped on seeing big rails and shit but I’ve always definitely loved transition more. Big transition and vert. Vert is not dead.
Biggest rail you’ve grinded?
I did a 21 stair a couple weeks ago. That’s definitely the biggest. I’ve always wanted to grind the same stairs as my age so I’m just looking for a nice mellow 26.
You better hurry up or you’ll be looking for a twenty seven
.
I’m about to be twenty seven so I might as well find the most mellow thirty stair and give myself a couple years.
5050 p- Khalsa
Favorite ditch?
It’s an old awesome spot called 5 hips but that spot’s pretty much been gone since I moved to Austin but they have so much other shit to skate there. Definitely one of the best skate spots I’ve ever skated, the most perfect jersey barrier that someone just poured right there. Then right across the bridge theres like this wallride with a ledge sticking out of the wall, and then you keep going down the ditch and you get to the old DIY spot 5 hips.
What is your favorite thing about Texas?
Everyone in Texas is super nice, even when it comes to the skate scene. I pretty much moved here and everyone welcomed me with open arms. Southern hospitality is a real thing.
Lamest thing about Texas?
Definitely the heat. It gets brutally hot, and I already told you for my job I’m working in attics. You literally can’t skate for most of the day, you gotta go swim, and then wait for the sun to go down, then you can start skating.
Favorite filmer?
Jeffery Gibbons by far.
Favorite hard flip back lip?
Oh dude, Brandon Marlen.

================================================================================

Photos and interview by Rich Whitehead
Hey Sam, what’s up?
Not much we’re having a sesh on this blazing hot day.
Yeah it’s hot as hell! Let’s get to it!
Name, age, where you from, and your sponsors?
I’m Sam Bolton. I’m 22 years old I live in Linden, New Jersey and currently my sponsors are There Skateboards, New Balance, Krux, Mob, Spitfire, NJ Skateshop, and I’m about to get my first box from Dickies.
Sick! Let’s talk about the local skate scene.
The local skate scene here is pretty decent. It’s always growing. I feel like every time I come to the skate park there’s new people I’ve never seen before getting on their board for the first time. It’s not as big as if we were in the city skating but there are definitely a bunch of rippers out here, same as you would see anywhere.
I’ve known you for quite some time, I remember when you were a teenager, and basically the only female skater around for miles. What was that like growing up?
I started skating because of my older sister, watching her skate, but by the time she got to high school, she stopped skating, and then I really was the only girl that I knew of that skated around here. Skateboarding is such a male dominated sport it’s a little discouraging when you have only dudes around you. That’s why when I went to the first ever Quell Skateboarding meet up, I was basically in shock because I’d never seen that many girls on skateboards before. It was pretty crazy to see. Even now there aren’t many girl skateboarders where I live but I am starting to see more and more, and that really makes me happy. I don’t think girls or non-cis skaters should be turned away from skateboarding just because it’s primarily boys, skating is for anyone and everyone.
Just like the girl skateboarding community is growing, so is the queer skateboarding community. Which in my eyes has been one of the best things to happen in skateboarding since ‘Fully Flared’. How do you feel about it?
I’m also super hyped about the growing queer skate community. I think it’s really cool to have spaces where people can come together and only worry about having fun, not how they’re being perceived at the skate park. It’s definitely long overdue. The queer community here is still pretty nonexistent. I know in Montclair, which is a few towns over from me, a group called Boardroom Skate hosts sessions for girls and non-binary skaters every Saturday, which is pretty sick. That was really unheard of when I was growing up skating, and with There and Unity I’m starting to see and meet so many more queer skaters. Like I said, skateboarding is for anyone and everyone and it’s just easier for everyone to get on board when there are safe spaces for people to skate and simultaneously be themselves.
Believe it or not, you’re a great influence in the skate community. Who’s been a major influence on your journey?
It’s crazy to think that anybody could be influenced by me skating, I literally just come out here and do my little tricks on my board just for fun. I do have a lot of skaters that I look up to for sure. I definitely look up and try to emulate the skating of some of my favorite skaters like Leo Baker and Breana Geering. But I also get really hyped by seeing my friends skate. I think they’re the ones who honestly influence me the most. My friends here, like you and all the other people in our group chat, and definitely everyone else on There skateboards. I see everyone out here just doing their best and killing it. It gets me really hyped to try harder and do my best too.
If you’re not out skating, what are you up to?
I honestly don’t do a lot. If I’m not skating then I’m probably like cooking or tattooing. I think besides skating, one of my favorite things to do is tattoo. That’s what I am honestly pursuing in addition to skateboarding but besides that not much else. Maybe playing guitar hero or just hanging out with my girlfriend.
What are the recent trips you’ve been on and projects you’re working on?
I just got back from Copenhagen a week or two ago. The There team went for the CPH Open events but I pretty much skated street the whole time, which honestly I think I prefer. There is gonna be a Euro There video coming out soon from that trip. Some of the people on the team went to Berlin and Paris too so there’s gonna be a bunch of footage from all those places. I also plan on going to Seattle in September for Wheels of Fortune. I have another future project too, I’m working on shooting photos for an upcoming New Balance and NJ Skateshop collab so that’s gonna be really exciting. But besides that, I’m just stacking clips.
Before we end this, do you have any advice for someone wanting to skate?
Probably just to skate every day. I’m really heavy on “You skate better today if you skated yesterday”. You’re only gonna progress if you keep trying, so I think the best advice that I could give to anyone is to just go and skate as much as you can.
Very well put and thank you for your time! Wanna give any shoutouts?
Yeah, shoutout to you, shoutout to all of our homies here, Iker, Josh, Rodney. Shoutout to my girlfriend Skye. Shoutout to Jeff and everyone on the There team, and big shoutout to Steve and Chris from NJ. I love all of you guys.

================================================================================

What are you up to today?
Working on a 30 years of Burnside article for a Thrasher feature. I’m also working on interviews and collecting photos from photographer’s archives. It’s been really fun to listen to all the stories and see all the photos. Burnside was really gnarly in the early 1990’s. It’s the DNA of DIY, ground zero of where it all started under a bridge.
You mentioned your kids just started at cyber school, how’s that going?
We are one week in. I’m juggling work and helping my kids, so it’s hectic. My wife is helping a lot. We will get it dialed in soon. Major respect to teachers out there, thank you for everything you do.
Were you born and raised in Detroit?
Yeah, I was born in Detroit, on the west side.
Did you live in the city or the suburbs?
I lived in Detroit for a few years, then Hillsdale which is close to Ohio. Dearborn for a few years, then Sterling Heights for junior high and high school.
What was it like growing up and skating there?
The best, It’s where I first fell in love with skateboarding and learned to skate in the late 1980’s, watching skate videos to learn tricks. Seeing Thrasher for the first time. It was a really special time for me and my friends. One of my favorite things was driving around Detroit as a kid with my dad and he would show me where he went to school, the house he grew up in, where he sold newspapers at the train station in Detroit, going to a Detroit Tiger game was magical for me.
How about race relations? 1980’s Detroit must have been an interesting place to learn about racism…
I was a kid in the 1980’s. At nine years old, I don’t personally recall seeing any racism.  As I got older, I learned about the Detroit riots in 1967. My parents were very informative about race relations. They always told me to treat people the same no matter what their ethnicity is. Detroit is a really ethnic place so it was normal to me to be around people of all colors. Detroit has a lot of auto unions and I remember seeing fights with strikers scab labor guys, the guys that would take a job while the strikers were striking, and things would get crazy. I would be scared hiding in the back seat of my dad’s car while we were stopped at a light watching the fights happen. He would explain to me what was going on.
Did you shoot photos at all when you were a kid?
I did a little more point and shoot but nothing serious. Just photos of my friends, not action photos. My friend’s sister Cheryl shot photos of us skating in the 80’s. I recently asked my friend if she still had the negs from then. Unfortunately he said his sister had thrown them away but I would love to have those now!
Were you ever sponsored or anything? Did you hope to go pro?
I was never sponsored. I didn’t have any desire to be a pro skater. I loved the act of skateboarding. When I first moved to SF. I would go out with Meza while he was filming in 1991-1992, which was amazing. Aaron would tell me tricks that went down and it blew my mind. I was working and going to school, so when I had a chance to skate I wanted to skate as much as I could, so that’s why I lived downtown SF. I could walk outside my door and skate down 2 hills. One to Civic Center library down Hyde st. or bomb Bush to Black Rock, Union Square or EMB. I liked to ride my skateboard. That’s about it. I didn’t shoot photos at that point but wish I would have been shooting then!
So when and how did you make the trip to SF from Detroit?
I was working construction in Michigan and had finished one year of community college and I was over winter. I felt like the amount I traveled to Chicago, Milwaukee, Ohio it was time to make a major change. I wanted to skate, so California made sense. I chose SF because you didn’t need to own a car to get around, you can skate and take the bus everywhere. That was a big allure to me. I was nineteen and had had a job since I was a kid. Mowing lawns, shoveling snow and paper routes. That taught me the value of a dollar and my parents taught me how to pay bills, write checks, and all that. So for me it was pretty easy, I didn’t need my parents to hold my hand. It was really exciting but I was fortunate things worked out for me and the people I met in SF looked out for me as well. SF was the real deal, it was a skate city.
And how did working for High Speed come about?
I was taking photo classes at City College of SF. I was always around filmers and photogs, Meza, Metty ,Morford, BK… So I started shooting my friends skating. I kept a notebook with all my camera and flash settings numbered 1-36 for each exposure of film. I would ask Morford questions about camera settings and I learned from my mistakes. I loved developing or picking up my slide film from the lab. It was always the best or worst feeling. It was something really cool or totally blowing it. I miss that feeling. Meza introduced me to Lance Dawes and I knew Mark Whiteley from skating. After a few years I was contributing photos to Slap and other skate mags. I went to Europe for 2 months on my own dime with my friend Anthony Claravall who showed me how to travel internationally. He knew a bunch of skaters and we took trains all over Europe, it was incredible! That is, until I got home and got my credit card bill. Lance told me to get the film developed on the Slap account at the photo lab. I had about 50 or 60 rolls of film. I edited the photos and wrote stories to go with them and then dropped off the images and stories on Lance’s desk, but he wasn’t in the office when I went in. I was broke and my friends were going to Visalia skate camp so I jumped in their car. I went for a week to skate with my friends and eat the free camp food, which sucked but I had no money, so I couldn’t complain. When I got home I checked my answering machine. There were no cell phones at that time, only pagers, which I didn’t have. Lance left me a message and was concerned about the photo lab bill and needed me to come into the office to talk to them. I was scared shitless. High Speed was very intimidating to me. Fausto, Phelper, Riggins, they were some of the gnarliest dudes in skateboarding. I went in and Lance and Whiteley were stoked on my photos from Europe. Lance said he was moving to LA and they both asked me if I wanted to be a photo editor and photographer for Slap and It’s been an amazing journey ever since. I was shocked. I was at the right place at the right time.
Did you ever do any other stuff editorially for Slap or Thrasher besides shoot photos? Like write articles or other duties of the mag?
Yeah, random articles like Adroit in Detroit. Ride it Sculpture Park in Detroit. I’m not a great writer, but I try. Burnett and Sieben really help me with their encouragement and I appreciate it. I film Fatback videos. Conjure trips with skaters or jump on company trips. I’m down to help anywhere that I can.
What are your thoughts on going to college for photography?
I think college is great! Being a photo assistant to an amazing photographer can be equally as good though. It depends if you have money for college. I did both school and assist because I didn’t have a college fund so it made me hustle a bit more.
Have you ever worked as a professional photographer outside of skating?
Little things here and there. I would like to do more commercial work.
So you’re in Portland now. What made you make the move and how long have you been up there?
After twenty five plus years in SF it was time to move on. I thought I would die skating down a hill in SF before I moved. I have two awesome kids with my amazing wife and she has family in Portland so it was a smooth transition. I’ve been skating and shooting in Portland for 20 years so I knew it was a great place to live. It will be four years in Portland in December. We love it here. It’s good for my family and skateboarding so that’s a plus.
What’s it been like these past few months with the protests? It looks pretty gnarly on the internet, but I know all that stuff is pretty centralized.
It’s mostly around the courthouse downtown. We have been skating a few blocks from the protest area and the Feds definitely vibe us out and try to intimidate us by driving by multiple times stopping and staring us down. It’s very awkward. Now with all the fires it’s like an apocalypse here. Hopefully everything will mellow out soon. It’s been a really heavy time here.
What do you think white skaters can do to make a difference right now?
Be good role models on and off your board. Stand up for positive things that they’re interested in and they support. Basically be a good example to your fellow people. Life is short… let’s make it better for everyone.
Any words of advice or final sentiments you’d like to share with the people?
Skateboarding is something I have always cherished. It’s treated me well. I’ve met my best friends, traveled, learned about music, art, a lot about myself, and the world because of skateboarding. I’ve said goodbye to some amazing skaters, laughed and cried along this journey over the years. Thanks to the HSP family for this amazing life they have given me to capture skateboarding around the world. Everyone that I have shot with, thanks for the opportunity, and all the floors and couches people have let me rest my head. Keeping pushing 100%.

================================================================================

Interview by Jonathan Becker.
What’s good bro? What have you been up to?
Chilling man. Honestly just been working on illustrations and the coloring book. Kind of really all I’ve been doing since I still got my hurt ankle.
Can you tell if it’s getting any stronger?
Yeah, I do PT almost every day. Every day it feels stronger, slowly but surely. I was traveling a little bit and it probably wasn’t helping to be drinking and doing stupid shit you know.
What have you been up to today?
Today I had a cousin come over and play some chess. Played a couple games and he actually left as we tied so it’s one to one. Besides that, just working on illustrations. Working on this one piece of this person dreaming.
Where in Virginia are you from?
I’m from northern Virginia, born in Alexandria and kind of grew up through my teenage years in Sterling. Between that I just traveled to Guatemala. I am half Guatemalan.
So you traveled to Guatemala because you got family over there too?
Yeah, half my family is Guatemalan and we used to go all the time. I used to be there for months at a time.
Would you skate over there too?
Actually I started skating when I was like 13 or something and then I think I didn’t go to Guatemala for a while until I was like 17. I think it was something like that because I didn’t have my passport. Then I went to Guatemala but there is not really much there to be honest. The skate parks I remember honestly all really kind of suck. There is so much potential but something about every one of them was just really bad. There was this one in Xela, which I’m pretty sure is an active volcano, but there is this skatepark and it’s in this hole. There are like three or four levels leading down to where these horrible bowls are at, these crazy transitions with like 10 foot vert walls and stuff like that. It’s crazy, you gotta look up that park. The skatepark is so bad it’s not even funny but it was pretty memorable. You can’t really skate much there unless you’re in the city.
You said you were traveling a bunch and went on a road trip, tell me about going cross country?
So at the end of 2020 I was living in New York and I started to write this coloring book and I found it really hard to concentrate and to find the words so I decided that I was just going to travel the country in my car. Basically I had some bread off of some crypto investments and I built a bed in my Honda CRV and just started traveling the country. I made a big huge circle, it took me like eight months. I went to Atlanta, then LA, then up to Seattle, and then crossed back over to Pittsburgh. It was quite a journey honestly. You don’t realize how beautiful the world is until you’re by yourself and you can just hear all the noises it gives you. Whether it’s from the desert or the forest or a mountain or whatever it is. It is so interesting and beautiful, no matter how many times you see these beautiful things, there is never a lack of another more or equally beautifully thing. Traveling was one of the most beautiful things ever. It’s such a gift being able to move from one place to another not knowing.
Tell me about filming with John Evans for
Cinco
?
I love those dudes so much, they are so hungry and so professional it is insane. The first time I remember we went to a spot and lit it up, it’s such a surreal feeling. It just makes you want to push yourself and your boundaries. I for sure tried shit I didn’t expect I would want to do, or could do, but only because I grew up knowing about Jevans all my life. So being able to to have an opportunity to be a part of this project was so sick. Even though I wasn’t able to be there for a lot of it, just being in the van with the boys I made some of my best friends in the world from just filming.
I know you like mushrooms. Is there ever a time where it’s too many? Or is there never too many mushrooms?
I think there definitely is for sure. Every strain is different, just like weed. Once you find yourself a nice strain you can kind of know how much to eat to get to certain points. It depends on what you want I guess, I definitely think a micro dose every day is good. I want to thank mushrooms for helping me to graduate college to be honest. I think if it wasn’t for mushrooms I wouldn’t be on point.
What did you go to college for?
I graduated with an electrical engineering degree with a specialization in micro electronics. It’s weird to say it.
Plan on using it any time soon or just doing it what you want for now?
I’m still banking off this crypto stuff and I started making a little money off NFT’s. I’ve just been using my time to work on the coloring book. Maybe in the future if I’m not able to… See that’s the thing though. Having a plan B is just not having full confidence in what I really ant to do. Realistically, it would be nice to be able to continue to be an illustrator and tell stories and not be an electrical engineer because I don’t really want to work for anyone. I like being able to create and work for myself.
Where do you want to go outside of the USA?
When it gets warmer it would be sick to go to Paris. If we were going right now, I’d be down to go to Lima, Peru. It’s pretty sick and a good place to skate. That whole city is a skatepark.
Since you couldn’t skate, what did you end up doing during the Stingwater trip?
I mostly pulled up to hang out with everyone and thought I would be able to skate a little bit but didn’t. I already had my ticket and Daniel said I could stay with him so I just was filming most of the time. It was nice though, I like filming. That’s like all I really did, I felt like a cheerleader. When you are watching everyone skate and you aren’t, it makes you really appreciate their skating a lot more. Not being in the field like that and on the sidelines watching makes you really appreciate the homies more. Sting video should be coming out in like June or something. Jevans is gonna have another video too. Talking about a year or something to film it. I just love skating with Pendry and Jevans. They put me in this really cool mindset.
What’s next for you in general?
Right now, I’ve been illustrating the coloring book. It has like three stories in it. I’ve just been illustrating the pages for everyone to color in. I’m like halfway through it now. The words are already done. Since I hurt my ankle I have been in Virginia and it has forced me to constantly be working on something because the time I don’t spend skating I spend working on art. I just want to really finish the coloring book. I’m really excited for it and think people will be stoked on it. Also collaborate with different artists, film more and “groe.”

================================================================================

Name? Age? Current Geographical location:
Ricky William Geiger III. I just turned 32. Philadelphia, PA.
You’re originally from Phoenix. Tell me about growing up there and getting into skateboarding.
Growing up in Phoenix was totally different from growing up here (Philadelphia). You need to have a car to survive. Before all that, I started skating because my sister’s boyfriend at the time. Todd McKay, who was sponsored by Powell and Axion. He was fucking shredding. I just thought he was the coolest dude ever. I’d never seen skating before. He’d come over and skate, and I eventually got a board from Cowtown and he kinda showed me how to skate/taught me some things.
My sister and him broke up, and then we never really skated again. I made other friends at school who skated and kinda started skating around my house. I had a fun box and a launch ramp. My dad got me a foot high faltbar for my birthday. He got it welded at some metal fabrication place. I couldn’t boardslide it or anything when I first got it. I was so pissed. I got frustrated so fast. My dad was like, oh, you’ll get better. You’ll get on it and adapt. The next day I was boardsliding it. Dude I learned how to ollie and 180 in the same day. Kickflip took a good year. That was the real tough one to figure out.
Did you play any sports growing up? Did your parents try and steer you in any direction?
I played all of the sports, except for football. I played soccer, baseball…that was my shit. But yeah, once I started skating that was all over. My parents were always super supportive of whatever I wanted to do, but my mom wasn’t that hyped when I broke my rib on my friend’s flatbar and couldn’t go to practice.
I’m glad I started skating in Arizona. I grew up with the best parks and ditch spots, but it was so fucking hot. That, and it was impossible without a car. We used to skate for miles to get to deck park and downtown.
What was your involvement with Cowtown?
I hung out at the shop every day. A little grom, skate rat kid that would hang out in the shop all day just watching skate videos, buying stickers. My whole life was about being at that shop and skating. I bought my first skate video, Welcome to Hell, from there. I thought they landed everything first try. I didn’t know how skating worked in videos. I thought everything was first try. At the end of the video with the slam section (with the flowers blooming and the fast motion), then I woke up. Skating is fucking hard. I’ve been going into Cowtown since I was 11. The owners Trent, Ed, Laura, big ups to them helping me out with everything. I entered my first contest and ended up winning. Then they put me on the team.
Did you skate a lot of contests when you were younger?
Not really. Maybe like a handful. I never really liked contests. Especially after my first Phoenix AM. I rolled my ankle mid-run trying to crook this rail. My ankle swelled up to the size of a grapefruit, and my dad had to carry me off the course because I couldn’t walk. I was kind of over contests after that.
Who are the Cowtown Cubs?
Our group of friends who grew up at Cowtown. We all ended up riding for the shop. Nick and Peter Trapasso, Josh Stinson, Tim Harris, Brandon Fitzgerald, there’s more but uh…we all grew up at the shop and started riding for the shop. One of the owners just said one day, Man, you guys are kinda like cubs.” From there it was born.
My understanding is that you had a turbulent upbringing.
It’s a huge part of my experience in Phoenix. I grew up in a really nice neighborhood until my parents split up. From there, I was bouncing around between my dad and mom’s apartment. The court system didn’t grant my mom custody, So I had to go live with my dad and his homewrecker. I hated that shit so much. I stole my dad’s bike and rode for 30 miles to crash with some friends. I ended up living there a couple of years. I was fucking up in school because I was just skating all of the time, probably just to forget about what was going on. When I was 18 my mother passed away and that was really fucking hard.
I’m so sorry. I can’t even begin to understand how that feels.
I was a wreck for a long time, dude. It took me a while to bounce nack and realize that I needed to get my shit together. The beef between my dad has been squashed too. I love my dad, he”s the best dude. Everyone makes mistakes.
You seem like you’re in a really good place now. I’m sure the relocation helped you put that part of your life behind you. When did you move to Philadelphia?
2008 or 2009? I moved to Philadelphia for a change. I moved here with my friend Squirrel (Brain Lantz). I’ve always been a fan of East Coast skating. I fell in love with the East Coast after seeing Welcome to Hell. Maldonado, Kerry Getz. Seeing Underachievers, that really set the tone. That’s what inspired my move to Philly. Squirrel wanted to, my sister moved to Newtown, my dad was moving to NY full time.
I’m so glad I did it, because it helped develop my style of skating. I like how hard it is out here to get shit done. The weather, the people, the cars. When you get something it’s really meaningful. I like Philly because people will call you out right away. If you’re kookin it, they’ll let you know. No one really puts up with that shit out here. You’ll know where you stand out here.
Oh word, we moved here around the same time. What was that experience like?
Ah fuck. It was just crazy. Going from the desert to the gigantic city was pretty wild. We flew out here, and then went back to Phoenix. I came back with my dad in his Tahoe. Squirrel, I think he flew. Like we came here, visited, fell in love with it, went back to Phoenix, and were like, “Fuck it, let’s move to Philly.” It’s crazy how that was almost 10 years ago.
What’s the craziest experience that you’ve had here?
I saw a shootout in front of my house on 17th and Wallace when I first moved here. There was a shooting, and I think the dude died right on our block. That was pretty crazy. It was so loud. There have got to be couple other ones…maybe just seeing the crazy zombies around town. How much drugs are affecting the city. Prolly just the shootout I guess.
Do you think you’ll ever leave the city?
I’ve been thinking about it. Maybe trying out Washington state, or maybe Portland or Seattle. I think that would be sick. Go somewhere where it’s a little more pretty. To be one with nature again.
Do you want to talk about your experience as a “sponsored skateboarder”?
I think Cowtown first started getting me Axions. I got introduced to Joey Suriel at a contest. He put me on Fillmore Wheels, Axion, Royal Trucks, and Odyssey Backpacks. I got hooked up with Elwood Clothing too. All the Dan Drehobl parts were amazing. The first photo I ever had in Focus I had an Elwood button down on. Joey hooked me up with Diamond. I was fresh as fuck haha. I think I was also getting DC’s after Axion, and was rocking those forever. Jimmy Astleford hooked me up. Then one day I got a call from Trent and he was like, “Hey, Vern Laird is going to call you in a minute and ask what sizes you want for Listen.” I was trippin out after that. Getting boards from Danny Montoya and Rob Gonzalez was awesome. They came out and stayed with me in Phoenix for a week. We were staying at sketchy-ass Motel 6s, crack pipes under the bed and shit, but it was sick. I’ll never forget, one night I was falling asleep in the bed and Brian Brown said, ” Flow trash sleeps on the ground.” I got kicked out of the bed. It makes sense though. You gotta earn that shit.
Did they keep you in the loop at all? “Viajeros Locos” came out and then they were gone.
Nah, they just told me to film some shit for the video and that we would go from there. After the video it just died. Kids aren’t smart enough to realize that those dudes were the ones to be buying boards from. After I moved to Philly all of the sponsors kinda fizzled away.
What happened after Listen?
I got a call from Tombo at 5Boro about riding for them. I was like fuck yeah. Those dudes, Tombo and some of the 5Boro guys, came out to skate with the Listen guys in Arizona. That’s how I met Tombo and those dudes, but it wasn’t really going anywhere. They wanted me to come to NY more, and I didn’t really like going there that much. It’s overwhelming. I’d rather skate Philly. That 5Boro Philly edit that we made with Hern (Chris Mulhern) was amazing. It was such a fun time. They would all come stay with me when I lived out in West Philly.
So things kind of fizzled out with 5Boro too. Do you want to talk about that?
I got all the respect for these dudes. I just felt like I had to dip. It wasn’t working out. I love all those guys. Maybe I was getting greedy thinking I could just stay in Philly. It was kind of a dickhead thing for me to do. But I’ve always wanted to kind of do whatever I wanted to do. I don’t want to have to be forced to come up to NY to gain more cloutaround New York City. I just don’t give a fuck about that. I want to skate with my friend with the city that I’m in. Just cause I’m not coming up doesn’t mean I don’t like you guys. I’d just rather be here.
I work full time. I don’t have time to fuck around. I was getting to the point in my life where I gotta work and make money. I can’t be trying to do this skate life thing. I knew after Listen and even into 5Boro that I wasn’t meant to be a “career skater.” At the same time when I was younger, it was like, ‘that would be fucking rad.’ But life happens. I tdoesn’t always pan out to what you think it’s gonna be. It’s hard to come up, especially now. But now I’m skating with my friends, still having fun. It’s the best. I’m still doing what I love.
What are some of your inspirations? Art/skating/music?
Definitely my friends that I skate with (Walt Wolfe, Toly Bitny, Anthony Trivelli, Zach Sayles, Matt Cline, Dylan Pearce, Matt Militano). I like watching Quim Cordona footage, cruising around. And Erik Ellington. He’s got the bigspins, Quim’s got the Quimtimes (wallride nollie). Music, I really like listening to Adeodat Warfield. We were watching the Pyramid Country video. I like my roommate Matt (DJ Matpat)’s selection of house music. For art, I still draw a little. I haven’t painted in a really long time.
You draw a lot of faces and figures. How did your style develop to this way?
So I usually do a lot of eyes. The eyes are a big part of the faces that I make sometimes. I love drawing eyes because one of my first CDs was an Eli CD with an eyeball on the cover, with a squiggly line. Looked kind of Aztec inspired? I had some Salvador Dali books and posters growing up as well. Picasso and Dali inspired me a lot to draw and paint from my head. I don’t have the patience to do a super detailed looking, perfect person. I’d rather have a distorted figure with weird legs or something. I just like drawing from my head.
Word on the street is you used to dabble in graffiti?
I used to when I first moved here. I was not good at it. I put up a couple pieces that I’m pretty proud of, but then the fourth or fifth time I went to paint a face on an abandoned trailer in a dirt lot in South Philly, two under covers ambushed me. I ran from them, and then they caught me a few blocks away. I lost my bicycle that I had that night. The one guy hockey checked me into a brick wall. I weaseled away and ran a few blocks and then they caught up to me in their cruiser and tackled me. They cut my backpack strap off and proceeded to dump all my paint into the gutter. Fresh ass cans, I spent like $60 on all this paint. It was funny though, they were talking shit to me as I was handcuffed on the ground against the wall, they’re telling me I’m a piece of shit. I was just trying to be normal with them the whole time, keep my composure. You know, “sir, yes sir, thank you.” They caught on to me being polite, and started trying to be nice to me. They were like, “Oh that face you did was kind of cool looking. You should go paint that in North Philly. Don’t paint in South Philly.” I guess that was their territory. I went to court and got a slap on the wrist, since it was my first time. After that I was like, ‘dude, I’m a grown ass man. I’m already running from cops from skating. I can’t be fucking around with another dangerous and stupid illegal thing to do.’ I love the work that other people do, but I don’t think it’s for me. The juice ain’t worth the squeeze.
What do you currently do for work?
I work full-time as an art handler. It entails everything and anything that has to do with installing, packing, moving, crating, transporting artwork. We’re behind the scenes, no one really thinks about us.
So a museum or art dealer wants to move a piece of art…
And we get it where it needs to go.
What’s the most interesting piece you’ve had to move?
The most expensive thing we’ve had to mvoe was a Damien Hirst. I think it was the shark one (“The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living”). Dealing with that was interesting. Or maybe it was, uh, what’s that one artist’s name whose style is pretty wild? Kinda puts phalic drawings on his shit? The scale of his paintings are huge. It looks like little kid shit, but people love it. It was something like $40 million?
You’re always running all over the place. What are some of the coolest parts of the country your job has taken you to?
Florida is always interesting. That place is weird. I like Florida a lot. I’d say Taos, New Mexico, that place is really pretty. I just got back from Big Sky, Montana. We dropped a whole truckload of artwork off to this rich lady’s crazy house. Big Sky is big money development right now. It looks like a pop-up city. It’s super cool and pretty. We stayed in Bozeman, which is a cool college town. Hit some keggers haha.
Have you ever been tempted to just drive off in the truck and sell the work on the black market?
Yeah, I thought about it, but it would be kinda hard to get rid of artwork like that.
Tell me about your love for the Honda Ruckus.
Scootie gang! Well Nick Wnorowski got one, and I wanted to join the squad. ToTo (Anatoly Bitny) had a moped for a hot minute too. That got me sparked. I also needed some wheels to get around the city. I picked one up in Jersey.
How was your first time meeting Ricky Oyola?
There’s only one Ricky in Philadelphia, and that’s Ricky O. The first time I met him was out in front of Exit skate shop after a video premier. I introduced myself to him as Ricky, and the first thing he says back to me is, “Is that what it says on your birth certificate?” I said, “No, it’s Richard,” and he says, “Oh, that’s what I thought.” Ever since then it was like, alright, this dude is who everyone says he is. As I was leaving I was saying bye to everyone I say, “Later Ricky,” and he says, “Oh, later Richard.” Totally iced me. It was hilarious. He seems like a good guy. That’s my favorite experience meeting someone.
Is this the summer of Negronis?
Aperol spritzes and Negronis. Definitely riding that wave. Last winter was Hennessy. I was on that Henny wave. Hennything is possible.
Hennything can definitely happen when you drink Hennessy. What’s your negroni recipe?
It’s one oz gin, one oz sweet vermouth, with an orange peel garnish. You have to accentuate the garnish on the drink and serve it in a whiskey glass. You’re supposed to shake it, but I like to stir it.
That’s the opposite of James Bond. Any last words?
Shoutout to my dawgs. My sponsors, Municipal Skateboards, Exit Skateshop, Cowtown Skateshop, Hern for Adidas, Pusher Wheels…shoutout to everyone that hangs out with me. My girlfriend Emilia, love you boo.
Editors Note: Since this interview was published Ricky turned pro for Municipal Skateboards

================================================================================

Happy birthday
Hey thank you man. Big ups.
What you been up to today? You got plans?
I was skating House of Vans yesterday. Shut did an event there, and I’m just real sore from that so right now I’m just at one of the casinos, know what I’m saying trying give up soon, and then I’m probably gonna just kick it with the fam and have some dinner, take it easy, go from there.
Where you from?
I was born in Margate, NJ. Which is on Beacon island, like a mile or two from Atlantic City. Went to Atlantic City high school and was just raised on the island out here. I always tell people Atlantic City cause nobody knows where Margate is and it used to be Atlantic City fifty years ago. It’s just a little island.
That’s tight, you go to the casinos a lot?
Yeah, I used to go there more than I do now. When I started Clearly Faded I was going there a lot, doing nightlife photography for places as a little job for a minute. I just drank a lot more back then so I would go out to the clubs a lot and all that stuff. But I haven’t been going as much recently, unless I’m skating them or walking around or something, cause I don’t really drink like that anymore. Just trying to blaze and skate and uhh, drinking was getting in the way of me skating.
Hell yeah did you gamble at all?
Nah, I never got into gambling. I was raised with my family always working at the casinos and they’re whole thing was we take money from the casinos, we don’t give money to the casinos.
So whats up with Clearly Faded? How did that start?
Yeah basically I was trying to do a nightlife photography blog out here in Atlantic City, and then trying to do a photo/video company with my homie too. We were really just trying to get out there and have fun and party and get into all the spots. And do the photography of it, trying to get ourselves out there as photographers or videographers cause you know that was our little hustle out here. So we were both doing that for a while and then Clearly Faded kind of became something more than just a nightlife thing. I really wanted to bring the whole skateboarding and cannabis culture into the brand more than I wanted to do the whole nightlife stuff. Cause that was never really my scene you know. I was always just a street skater from this island just skating Atlantic City, just going to Philly and NY. And then I was just living down here, at that age with all this camera gear and I just fell into it more or less. One of the skater homies from Brazil, Marcello, gave me the opportunity to shoot inthe nightclubs. So from that point on it was like we need a name to put these photos on so we can go party, and meet chicks, and wile out, and get everything for free.
Haha, do you have a team? Or how does that work?
Yeah so we’re starting to offer bolts with rolling papers as a combo. And you know we did establish a little team that we’re doing. We got Quim Cardona, Antwuan Dixon, Kyle Nicholson, Kevin Taylor, and you know we got a bunch of different ams on the team. Joel Morganwest, myself, Jordan Gesko your guys boy, always rips from Jersey. We hook a lot of people up, we’re more or less just getting organized and all that, and just get shit official. Cause it’s really just a startup brand, I don’t really have a lot of money, I don’t work a regular job really. I’m a full-time caretaker for my grandmother who is 93 and can’t really operate by herself, and she just lost my grandfather. So I just live in with her, and whatever little bits I can I just get stuff made and hook people up. I’m trying to just really stock up on inventory and just get it out to the people, cause we have a demand for it that we haven’t necessarily been able to meet yet. But we’re ready for it, we got an ill manufacturing team now at Denial in Philly, and I’m confident we’re gonna be doing big things this year.
So how long have you know Quim?
I mean obviously being a Jersey skater I’ve known him since I started skating but personally I got tight with him about 2010 or so. We were both riding for Domestics at the time, so I was living in California with Bdub out there and we had actually been talking about doing a video for domestics for a while over the phone but we never met each other. So then he flew out and you know we skated for a week, skated with Ron Chapman and all them in Long Beach. And we just got real tight, and you know I go up there and crash with him and skate NY a bunch, and he comes to AC a lot, and then we make Philly trips. Quims a good homie man, real good person, like family dude.
So what was it like the first time you smoked weed?
I was on the island with my homie Ol’Dirty Laundry, I grew up skating with this dude Chris Landry and a couple other dudes were rolling one up and they were like you won’t blaze man and I was like shit, lets go. So we went and smoked at the beach and then went and skated and I did some tricks I never did before, and then I just remember being at the Ice Cream Parlor just cracking up nonstop. Everything was mad funny, even corny shit. So it just worked out the first time and I haven’t stopped since then. When I was 13 years old.
That’s sick you got tricks the first time you smoked.
Yeah all that lazy stereotypes people try to put on it I could never relate to that shit cause it just always makes me want to go out and skate.
Are you vegan or vegetarian or anything?
Nah I’m not one particular thing. I do eat fish, I don’t eat meat, I don’t eat cheeses. I’m just super into healing herbs and nutrition and I feel a lot of people generally aredepleted nutritionally. So there’s a lot of problems that arise in their life just cause they’re consuming the wrong stuff. You know, driving the car around on empty. And I did that for so long until I broke my ankle and started studying nutrition. Now I go to a school in NY for healing nutrition, studying eastern medicine outside of the pills and the chemicals. We study the shit that grows out of the ground, that’s natural, like cannabis. And I’ll tell you what, it’s been one year I’ve been on this program and I really have never felt better on my board in my life.
Yeah it definitely seems to work for Jordan.
Yeah, you are what you eat.
You were just in Colorado right?
Yeah we were out there for the cannabis cup. It was epic man, they loved us out there. The dispensaries and stuff all sell Huf socks and shit, so the shop owners were coming up to the booth saying how they want to carry us, and we sold out of everything at the event. Also Cypress Hill came over for a little, B-Real was stoked on our stuff so we hooked him up. Man it was tight, we just smoked so much trees. I wish more people could experience stuff like that.
And it was just super peaceful too. You throw that same 40,000 person party with alcohol as the theme, there’s gonna be all these fights and people are gonna get all type of sloppy. It was just cool to see a cannabis festival, with no fights, nobody falling on their face acting like idiots, people were just aware and happy to be around each other.
Describe yr dream girl?
Probably just health conscious, is passionate about something artistic that she does for herself, has a lot of dreams and just looks real good.
How did you get on Shut?
Man I’ve been on Shut for a long time! I think I’ve been riding for Shut for like six years. I got on from this dude Nick Lang and Alex from Ocean City, Lex they called him, he used to work for Nocturnal. And they put the other homie Jake on and they were all just kind of like, yo we gotta get you sponsored and they were just old school Philly skater dudes that I was kicking it with and they just put my footage together. And man once that happened, I went up there and kicked it with everybody from Shut and it’s been like family ever since. So cool over there, great vibes and they just hook me up with motivation and skateboards man, I’m super blessed to be a part of it.
What’s the best thing to do when yr mad sore from skating?
When I’m sore from skating you know I’ll hit up a hot tub or ice my shit up. But now I just flood myself with super tonic herbs and superfoods, just really powerful, healing foods, lots of fluids with all types of good stuff for your body. Because everything in nature everything all around us, everything that is a part of creation is concerned with regeneration. So the more you give your body to do its job of regenerating the cells the less sore you’re gonna be. So I go out of my way now to give myself good stuff. I used to like drink a lot of alcohol to try to kill the pain, but actually that depletes your body even more and makes it that much harder for your body to regenerate, so I just had to cut that out of the equation to skate at the level that I want to.
So what’s up with that ledge you made recently?
Yeah, I made two ledges in Atlantic City. There’s been that spot on the bay, Sovereign Avenue that everybody’s been skating for years. There’s a definite skate community in AC now, all races and ages and neighborhoods are really into it. It’s pretty awesome to see the community forming over the years. We’ve been doing beach clean ups, and things like that around the community for years, spot clean ups and stuff. Basically after seeing all these skateboarders skate shitty ramps they built out of garbage and stuff over so much time I just said fuck it and went to home depot and bought cinderblocks and glue and coping and just made two different boxes. It’s so dope since I put em there to watch all this footage coming from there in this short amount of time already.
You got any crazy Love park stories?
Yeah one time I was leaving Love with my boy Jay Strickland, my homie from AC, and the homegirl Heather who used to skate Love with us a bunch. We were just walking down the street and we see these two cars a block away from Love right on Market St. and its like 2-3 in the morning and it looked like they were racing for a second, but then one just bashed into the other one and some fools just stuck their heads out the window and just started bucking shots right into the car they just hit. And that’s just on the outskirts of the park, obviously seen a lot of crazy stuff inside the park too. All that old Sabotage stuff, and I remember one time there was that old lady, and she stabbed another lady in the heart and there was like a big news story, and that same lady who stabbed to other one was all in my face a day earlier, screaming at all the skateboarders. City Hall was crazy too, I could go on for days with all those stories.
How long have you been skating Philly?
Since I was twelve years old, when I first started skating. This one homies uncle from AC took all of us out there to skate Love and there wasn’t even the grass, or the benches, or all that bullshit. When it was just that prime era with Habitat and Stevie and Kalis and that whole scene was still going on a little bit. I’ve seen a lot of generations and eras go through Love Park and that whole scene.
Philly, Jerz, or NY? Put em in order.
Oh man, that’s really hard. I never wanna leave Jersey cause that’s where my family is, but then I never wanna leave Philly cause I’ve been living there for ten years. Then when I go to NY it’s all the Shut dudes, and them dudes run the city, and make me super comfortable whenever I’m there. I would probably say AC is my favorite and my least favorite of all three.
What are 3 things you can’t live without?
Besides obvious ones of food, water, and shelter I would say I cant live without art, people, and just love man. I can’t live without love, people who are doing shit without passion or without respect and love for each other, I don’t fuck with people or places that get down like that.
You got any last words? Or advice for whoever might be reading this?
I really believe that if you do everything in life with unconditional love, whether dealing with enemies, or with your career, or whatever you want to do, you need to do it with unconditional love. It’s a real path to a world of abundance, if you show enough love in everything you’re doing, than you’ll resonate higher with the universe. If you ain’t doing what you love, than you’re just wasting your time.

================================================================================

How old are you and where are you from?
I’m 16 years old and I’m from Shelburne, Vermont.
What’s Shelburne like? Is it near a city or anything?
It’s like 10-15 minutes outside of Burlington, which I guess is the biggest city in Vermont. But there’s really not much around here.
What’s high school like nowadays?
High school nowadays is wack. I spend most of the day looking at my phone and snapchatting my friends, and the rest of the day trying to do work but not really.
Do you skip class a lot?
No, I’ve never skipped class.
You got a license or a car?
Just got my license! Right now I’m just whipping on my moms car. It’s fun.
Hell yeah, what’s the longest skate trip you’ve gone on? Any trips in the moms car yet?
Longest skate trip I’ve gone on honestly is probably day trips to Montreal, or a day down in Boston or something, not really too much.
Would you rather never have homework again, or never get another shinner?
Oh my god dude, probably never get another shinner cause I never do my homework anyways.
Ha, have you ever skated a vert ramp?
I have, yup.
Did you go over the coping?
Lately I’ve been trying to get my frontside airs down on a vert ramp. Shit is scary as fuck.
That’s tight. Do you think yr done growing?
Yeah probably, I’m only like 5’4″ and I haven’t grown in like two or three years.
What’s yr local shop?
It’s Talent skatepark and shop.
Do you people give you free stuff to skateboard?
Uh, no. I get no free stuff to skateboard with.
Alright, what do you want to be when you grow up?
I have no idea, something fun. Maybe be a skateboarder? Who knows.
Did you have anything you wanted to be before you started skating?
Probably like a fireman or some little kid shit.
So we always hear older skaters opinions on the current state of skateboarding, but what do you think about it?
Dude I think skateboarding right now is just dope. I don’t think it could be any better in my opinion, but the og days were pretty cool too.
What do you think about the olympics?
Nah, fuck all that.
Do you think Instagram is a good thing fr skateboarding?
I don’t know, I mean I use instagram everyday but it’s kind of weird cause skaters put out like really amazing stuff on it and then it’s gone the next day. I mean fuck, it’s fun, but kinda weird.
Yeah I mean I found all these photos you sent us on yr Instagram already posted. You know yr not supposed to do that right?
Oh shit, I blew it!
You’re all good, we said fuck it.
I need to sign a contract to not use that shit.
Do yr friends party?
My friends are always partying and I always just go around with them and never do anything. I don’t really party that much, which is kind of weird cause I’m in high school.
Who are some of the OG heads from yr area?
Probably like Chris Colbourn and Jordan Maxham. Those dudes are blowing up right now but I used to look up to them when I was like a young skater, and they were all from my town which was cool.
You don’t know a guy named Shane Driscoll, do you?
I do know Driscoll, haha! Yeah he used to work at Talent.
That’s the homie. So do you think yr vote would’ve mattered if you were old enough to vote?
Eh, probably not. But I guess you should vote anyway right?
That’s up to you bud. You got any last words? Anybody you wanna shout out to try and get some free shit?
Yo, shout out McDonalds, hook it up I’m hungry. Shout out to Talent park and shop, and yeah man that’s about it.
Good shit, go delete these photos off yr instagram, peace buddy.
Sounds good, good talking to you.

================================================================================

We’re watching
Blair Witch Project
on VHS right now. The VCR and tapes take up a ton of space, and it looks like shit so why do you do it?
I just feel so much more cozy with a VHS on, plus sometimes my wifi just doesn’t work. I like to have a physical copy for nostalgia of movies I love. I like the cover art and design…Put it on display.
Am I interviewing you as Reese Salken the skateboarder, or Wolf Trap Road the musician?
Haha, can it only be one or the other!? I don’t know, Wolf Trap Road is just my music.
Well if you wanted to use this platform to promote your music what would you tell us about WTR?
There’s not much to it, it’s just stuff I like to make in my spare time so I don’t go crazy. I can’t just sit too much, I get too much in my head.
You’re not at the point where there’s like comments on the internet talking shit about your music?
No, not yet. I’m sure people see it and think, “What the fuck is this guy doing?” But I like that.
Before we talk about skating, I wanted to ask what interests you in masks and the creation of them?
I don’t know I’ve just always loved scary, fucked up masks since I was little. Halloween has always been my favorite holiday, and when I was young I legitimately thought I wanted to be a monster mask maker. I would get these plain masks and put clay and other shit on there, but quickly realized I needed like rubber and molds and shit. I’ve made a couple other bullshit ones out of foil and papier-mâché, but nothing special.
It’s funny, as humans sometimes we like to be scared.
Yeah, it’s fucked.
Where are you from? Somewhere in Virginia? Newport News? Richmond? Norfolk?
You’re close, you pretty much hit everything around it, but it, it’s Yorktown, VA.
What originally sparked your interest to skate as a kid?
As a kid I was just down to do whatever as most kids would be, so I would rollerblade, ride a bike, push around on a skateboard, whatever the kids in the neighborhood were doing.
So did you have a skateboard, where did you get it?
I did have some botched shitty toy store board that I would try to paint and make look legit, but yeah, I don’t know or remember where I got it. The first proper board I got was a Birdhouse Tony Hawk.
Kinda funny, you’re now getting Birdhouse boards and a Birdman was your first board?
Yes, consciously the first real board I picked out on my 10th birthday was a B-House.
Did you have kids to skate with at this juncture or were you going solo?
There were these kids, like classic bad ass kids, getting into trouble smashing people’s pumpkins on Halloween type kids. They would let me skate with them and then I realized this is like a whole lifestyle! Randomly the first magazine I got was a Transworld, when they did their weird all sequence issue and I actually thought the magazine was called “9 Frames Per Second,” but I saw how skateboarders dressed and their style, and I realized I just looked like a dorky little kid.
So was that kinda the definitive moment where you were like I want to be a skateboarder?
Yeah exactly, I was full in. I also played baseball at the time and it sucked, always just standing in the outfield. I played football too and I kinda fucked with that. I was puny, but I tried my little heart out. It was funny though because someone got hurt skating on the team and the coach was like “No skateboarding if you risk your performance on the field!” Haha liek it was the NFL or some shit! By the end of middle school I quit all that and started spending more time going to skateparks and shit.
Where are we currently at in
Blair Witch Project
?
Currently they’re losing their shit, they’re fully lost, and lost the map.
So what is Pseudo Visions…A lifestyle, video. frame of mind, a crew, or all of the above?
It was a crew, but for us it was like a revolution that our friend Grant Forbes started. He was the filmer but more so a visionary as he was really on it and ahead of his time. He filmed really well, always had ideas, and drove us anywhere. I spent the summer after senior year filming for his video “
Shades Away
.” Grant changed my life in multiple ways. I kinda had a bad attitude about skating, in the sense that I was overly concerned about progressing and getting sponsored. He was the one who single handedly made me realize not to worry about that shit and just have fun. Unfortunately Grant died way too soon in a car accident, but I truly believe he would’ve gone on to do great things.
That had to be hard to deal with especially at that age…
Yeah, at the time I was in my freshman year at Old Dominion University, which sucked, but the only cool thing about it was that I was closer to Grant, so we would link up to skate even more. So when there was the accident it just completely flipped my world upside down, my whole future revolved around Grant. We were talking about moving out west at the time, among other things.
What movie we watching next?
Dusk Till Dawn.
Sounds good I like that movie, so back to college. How far did you make it in college?
Haha, one semester. I just knew it wasn’t for me. And with my friend just passing away, I felt like I had to get out of the area and start fresh with a new chapter of life or whatever.
Were you getting hooked up for skating at all at this point?
Yeah, I was getting flowed from Dekline and Foundation, I sent my footage in and it kinda worked as they started sending me a couple boards a month.
Let the readers know, where we’re at in
Dusk Till Dawn
.
Quentin just got a hole shot in his hand and Clooney is pouring Jack Daniels on it. That’s the way to do it!
So anyway you’re basically a college dropout, and this is when you made the move to California? How did you survive?
I was working at an Italian restaurant for a bit before I headed out so I had some money saved up. Right when I came out here I got a job at Togo’s Sandwiches in Hollywood. I lasted one day. I didn’t have a car and was staying random places which would’ve made it almost impossible to get there. I was fired, I jsut never came back. Luckily the homie D-Mar, who I hardly knew at the time, let me live at his place for a while in Long Beach.
Obviously you couldn’t stay at D-Mar’s place forever, what’d you do after that?
Yeah, there were nights where I’d be working and wasn’t sure where I was going to sleep that night. It was Adam Mills, the Birdhouse TM and filmer that really put me up. I really don’t even know why, just a nice guy I guess. And then after that Blake Carpenter hooked it up for a while. Also, Rodent let me stay with him for a bit. Then I stayed with Kyle Walker, Ant Travis’ and Ed Duff’s place, the Lutherans’…Just a bunch of places for a few months at a time and then I’d move on. There was never any hard feelings as I knew my time was up at each spot. I appreciated the good run and would want to get out before I wore out my welcome too much anyways.
We’ve both agreed in the past that we talking about injuries, but you ended up getting hurt and going back to VA for a while, right?
Yeah, I fucked up my knee trying to switch frontboard this rail, so went back home to lay low for a bit, some physical reconstruction, along with some mental reconstruction as well. When I came back to Cali I still had a while until I could skate again, but it wasn’t a bad time as I think I grew quite a bit during that period. Blake was nice enough to let me stay with him agian, I was working at The Pike, and a sushi restaurant, along with going to the gym for rehab like ever day, so I was keeping busy.
Around this time you started getting Birdhouse stuff, how was that obtainable when you weren’t skating?
Well I was sitting on a bit of footage and considering I was out for a while, it  jsut felt like the footage was getting kinda old and stale so I decided to be proactive and hit up Burnett from Thrasher with no expectations, and he was down to put it out on the site. I was already homies and skated with a lot of the dudes on Birdhouse, so they already kinda had my back, but I guess the TM at the time Jerome was hyped on that little bit of footage and it kinda just sealed the deal.
Filming for anything specific now?
Yeah, Birdhouse is going to be putting out a video entitled “Beautiful Mutants” in about a month, so most of my footage will go to that. Birdhouse put out “Saturdays” not too long ago, but everybody has been filming and has footage so it’s kind of like why not? That’s another cool thing about Birdhouse is the creative freedom we have right now. I’m just a flow guy but they’re pretty much letting me direct this video for the most part since it’ll be my first part with them or whatever. I made the music for the promo. Adam Mills and I just came up with a pretty stupid and simple concept where there’s little skits of me killing off a couple dudes on the team haha. It’s a trip though that I’m semi-putting together a video that I’m gonna be in with Tony Hawk.
It’s kind of trite but any shout outs?
For sure, pretty much everyone I’ve aforementioned during this discussion, plus any and everyone who has helped me out. My aunt Leslie, Stephen Mullen, my dad Neil, and Trent Hazelwood just to name a few.

================================================================================

How’s yr day been going Ty?
Ain’t too bad. Just trying to get it all in before tomorrow just in case shit doesn’t go well in court. I got to skate the park earlier today, now I’m working, and trying to drink a beer.
What’s up with the Venue video, that’s coming out?
I don’t know, we’ve been filming for like a year and a half, and it should be out soon. I think it’s gonna be tight, we travelled a shit ton and everybody’s been going in, so it should be good.
Who made it?
This dude Will Rosenstock, he’s my good friend.
Who got parts?
It’ll be me, Jon Rowe, Gilbert, Caleb Ocasio, Daniel Ravenal, and Caleb McNeely. Then I think the owner Maury, and Travis, and there’s a lot of people who are gonna have footage but not like full parts. Pretty much everyone who rides for the shop has a lot of footy.
Is your part done?
Not completely, definitely time to wrap it up and get the shit I wanna get. I think we have like three weeks left of filming.
How’d you get linked up with Scumco?
Well I met a bunch of the dudes a few years ago like Drew and Stan, but I moved to California and was skating for Chocolate at the time. But I got pretty over California and that whole vibe, so I wanted to really fuck with Scumco, so I reached out to him and he was down. Then I went to Pittsburgh and chilled with him and you know, since then.
How long were you in Cali?
I think a little over six months.
What was the worst part of it?
The big thing for me was I feel like everyone you meet on the East Coast remembers you after the first time, like you skate one spot with somebody and you see them six months later and you can go and be like what’s up, you know? Where as in California it would be like a week later, and they’d reintroduce themselves and then that would happen like three fucking times. Nobody gives a shit about anybody else out there. Everyone is just out to make it big.
There’s just way more skaters, that type of vibe?
Yeah and then there’s that. You drive down the street and you pass like six spots and everyone of them has kids hucking twelve stairs. I swear I’ve seen five sessions on one street of kids doing insane shit filming with like crazy cameras or something.
Did you drive to California when you went there?
Yeah we drove across and then I flew back. Drove with Will, and he also made a trip video from that. It was me and Jon Rowe in one car, Jordan Bradshaw, Josh Swyers, Will, This guy Brent O’Donnell
that shoots photos, and that’s it. We stopped in like seven cities for a couple days each.
Are you from Virginia?
Yeah I’m from right outside of Richmond and now I’ve been living in Richmond for like the past nine years.
Is the Dust House still around?
Ha! Yes. I’ve been living there for like four years. We’ve got eleven people in there right now.
Damn, I remember seeing that GoFundMe for it a while back, what was all that about?
Basically the city dropped this huge fucking fine on us, and there was gonna be a hearing and they were gonna smash the house right after. They only gave us a week to come up with a couple thousand dollars and all of us were broke as fuck, so we just had to do the internet thing.
But you guys raised all the funds?
Yeah, we got the money in like two days or something crazy. There’s another difference between east coast and west coast cause we’ve had probably hundreds of people come and stay, or pass through visiting and I’m pretty sure every one of those people threw down whatever they could on that thing.
Do you guys have a sign-in for people who crash there?
Haha, no we’ve had this list as like an inside joke of people we wanted to stay at the house, but we don’t make people sign in and shit.
What happened when the Dust House got raided?
That’s the reason that I might go to jail tomorrow! I stole this cardboard cut-out of a cop from a hospital and we just had it in our bathroom and some kids posted a photo of it on Instagram and location tagged it. I don’t even know how the cops saw the Instagram post, but they used the location from it and they all came through and raided the house, all for a piece of cardboard. Seven cops barge into my house pointing their guns at me while I’m just chilling in sweatpants and no shirt, and they retrieved the cardboard cut out and hit me with a petty larceny charge, haha. They were like, “This man has a family,” talking like the cardboard cut-out was actually the real dude.
What’d you have to do for community service?
Oh, I just worked at this thrift store cleaning shit for like four hours a day. You can pretty much do it anywhere so I did it at this thrift store and help this dude out, I decorated a Christmas tree the other day. I was supposed to take this shoplifting class too, but I didn’t sign up for the class in time so, I don’t really know what the court’s gonna say.
That’s so fucked.. You ever been to jail before?
Yeah, I had a long history of fucking up when I was younger so it’ll be fine. I was in and out of jail for like two years when I was younger.
What’s some of the craziest times you’ve had at the Dust House?
I mean we haven’t had really crazy parties or anything like that, there’s just a lot of really crazy people on our block, and we definitely know all our neighbors. One time we smoked crack with our neighbor, I guess that was kinda crazy but uhh…
Did the cops ever come through before they raided the place?
Nah that’s the benefit of knowing all our neighbors cause we can do whatever the hell we want. They came one time when we burned this Christmas tree in the backyard cause the fire was like 20 ft. tall in this tiny ass yard.
I heard you got a trick on Roosevelt Island. What’d you have to do to get that?
Yeah that was tough. It was me, Will, Nick from Scumco, and Brian Downey. We took the little skybus thing onto there and then I jumped the fence onto the shore and then I scaled the shoreline all the way down to where I could see the spot over all these boulders and barnacles and shit. Then I had to hop the fence into there and just ran to the top and somehow got lucky and did it first try. When I was riding away some dude was trying to grab me, and then we were just out. It was like an hour long mission each way for thirty seconds of skating. Paul Young showed me a photo of it and I just had to skate that thing. It looks like it’s in Egypt or something. I usually blow it under pressure, somehow it worked out.
What’s the worst haircut you’ve ever had?
Haha, well in recent years I had longer hair on top and shorter on the sides, but I didn’t slick it back or anything, I just looked like a weird bird or something. But when I was way younger I was forced to rock a bowl cut for mad years so that might be the worst one.
What’s up with Inbred Boys?
Hahaaa, well inbred is the younger generation of dudes in Richmond and they kind of adopted all the older dudes, so now we’re all like one big crew. Max Mattoon makes all their videos and shit. I don’t know, a bunch of weird ass dudes that used to be kooks but now are just weird ass adults.
What’s up with Bustcrew Sundays?
For the last shop video we made, Old Dominion, basically Sunday was the only day we all had off so we just made sure to go on a trip every single Sunday and then we just haven’t stopped and it’s been like four years now. Just cause we skate Richmond all week and it’s small and we’ve used it all up so it’s hard to think of shit to do so we just try to take day trips, or weekend trips as often as we can.
How many video parts have you had?
I don’t know, too many.
What was the last one you did?
The last one was this video called Brick, we filmed it this last winter, or the winter before, I can’t remember but we filmed it only in the winter. I don’t know why. I hate that video part.
Do you watch a lot of skate parts that come out on the internet?
Unfortunately, yeah. I just get bored and watch whatever just came out cause it’s there, but I’m not sweating what’s coming out. Just watch it to watch it.
Anything you seen recently that got you hyped?
Can’t think of anything off the top of my head but anything from the East Coast is always sick. New York dudes and that stuff, I like to watch a lot of old shit really.
What’s Trashmasters?
Ha! That’s nothing at all. It’s just a hat that my friend gave me, and then me and Jon Rowe were gonna start a junk removal service with that same name so we made these logos and then we never did anything with them. The hat was fucking sick, we just got inspired.
You ever film or take photos yrself?
Yeah, I’ve been taking photos for a long time but it’s always just kind of been whatever. I’ll shoot a skate photo, but that’s not something I’m looking to do all the time.
Film or Digital?
Oh a little 35mm, I just like fucking with weird ass plastic cameras I find at thrift stores and see how they turn out. Usually they turn out like shit, but I’ve got a regular slr too.
Where did you go last Sunday with the Bust crew?
Last Sunday we went to Lynchburg, VA. And on Saturday we were in Roanoke, Virginia. It was a good trip, everybody filmed at least one thing. We got into a little situation in Lynchburg with this dude though. I don’t know if I can go into details about that right now though.
Last question. Can you explain how you got strep throat from a pigeon?
It was immediately after the Roosevelt Island trick and Downey threw out a half smoked cigarette which then was swooped by a pigeon still lit and it dropped it, and how could you turn down a short from a pigeon haha. Then my throat almost closed up and I had to go to the E.R in Pittsburgh. Lesson learned.

================================================================================

Were you born and raised in Los Angeles?
I guess when I was really young I lived in Koreatown, but now I live in a little area considered Jefferson Park. Between Mid-City and Crenshaw district.
And how old
are
you?
I’m 25.
Are there a bunch of spots where yr at?
Yeah, actually there’s some really cool shit to skate here.
Is it normal schoolyard stuff?
I mean there’s this elementary school right near my house and that’s where I basically grew up skating, just like benches and tables.
You also do a lot of painting?
Yeah I do some painting sometimes, got a little studio space. I had a show last year but I haven’t really done much recently, just been skating all the time.
Who do you skate with a bunch?
Damn, I mean I skate with whoever is down to go out. Nowadays it’s been some friends from Chicago like Trevor, Eric, Blake, Nick, my friend Abraham, he lives a couple blocks away and isn’t working right now so I’ll skate with him.
What do you do for work?
Right now I’m not working actually. I was supposed to go to this interview today but I didn’t cause I wanted to skate.
Well done. So who’s been hooking you up with product?
Mike from Lotties has been hooking it up, Nike’s been giving me some shoes, and the homie at Jessup, my friend Brendan, has been hooking it up.
How is the new Lotties loc?
It’s cool, different than their old location for sure. For me it’s better cause it’s the only true shop in the hood. It’s no bullshit over here, it’s real, you know? There’s kids and local people that you see every day.
That’s awesome. Have you ever been to a foreign country?
I’ve been to China before. It was for school and they wouldn’t even let me bring my board, which kinda sucked.
Have you ever skated in snow?
No, I’ve never even seen the snow to be honest. Shit’s so sunny out here, I mean it’s the best weather out here but sometimes I just want some snow or some real cold weather.
Have you been to many other states besides California?
I was just in Chicago last month. That was really awesome, just that whole city is insane. Everything there is good to skate. My friends Blake and Nick were showing me around and we just went to a lot of local spots that they knew and skated with the OG homies at night and just cruised the city.
Do you feel like LA isn’t like that? Do you have to drive to spots a bunch?
I mean you do drive a lot, just cause it’s so spread out and big. But if you just go to downtown you just park your car somewhere and skate around. Like I feel like I could skate a full lap around downtown LA in one day.
You do acting or any shit like that out there?
Sometimes, I’ve been in a commercial once, it was for Apple.
Did they make you skate in it?
Dude no, all I had to do was hang out with the homie and these two chicks that surfed and all we did was lifestyle shots. Like just walk around and chill and stuff.
So what’re you trying to do for work since you don’t have a job?
I don’t know, mainly right now I’m just skating.
Do you ever plan to move out of LA?
That’s a tough one. If I did it would be out of the U.S.
What’s the coolest place you’ve ever been?
I don’t know, I’ve always liked the feeling of being on a building.
You mean like a roof?
Yeah, yeah that’s just always felt cool to me.
Word. What’s yr favorite thing to skate?
Whatever’s in my way.
You smoke weed?
No I don’t. I’ve smoked and drank before but I feel like that stuff just kinda passed me.
Who would yr dream sponsor be?
Probably Whole Foods.
You eat real healthy and shit?
Nah I’m not vegetarian but I try. I just had McDonalds today though.
Thanks Mario.

================================================================================

Where you from, and where you at?
I am from Leverett, MA. Currently kickin it in SF, CA.
Who do you skate for?
Creation Skateboards and Satori Movement Wheels.
How did you get started skateboarding? What are some of your first memories?
I originally rode bmx, cuz my older brother rode and I copied everything he did. But my dad got me a board when I was mad young, and I loved the feel of it, so much different than a bike. When I was really young, like 4th grade, I learned how to drop in an kick turn on a mini ramp some of my neighbors built. I always loved skateboarding, and I recognized how much harder it was than any other “sport” I had tried. It wasn’t until middle school that me and my homies started skating a lot. Once the crew was assembled it was fuckin on. My earliest memories were just going out and bombing hills, doing acid drops off stuff. I remember bombing a sidewalk sitting on my board and I ripped the skin off my knuckles cuz I was holding the board right above the wheels. I was hyped. We’d just go out and destroy shit, it was the best.
After over two years in SF you’re moving back to Boston. What’s your motivation for going back to the east coast?
Yup, back to the bean. I just want to explore Boston as the skateboarder I am now. Boston was the first real city I ever skated, and I look forward to pushing through it with a new outlook on skating and life in general.
What are you looking to accomplish in Boston?
Health, peace of mind, and gritty east coast thrashing.
What will you miss the most about the bay?
My people, the hills, and the laid back atmosphere. SF is an amazing place to live and skate because it has so much to offer. It’s like no other city. I’ll be back.
Any piece of advice for east coast cats trying to do their thing out west?
Not really, it completely depends on who you are and what you want. I moved here to skate as much as possible, have fun, be a part of the culture. I’m happy with what I’ve accomplished through skating out here, and that’s all that matters. Challenge yourself, be yourself.
You crushed it in Destroying Babylon and Avenues and Alphabets, the most recent Satori/Creation video. When can we expect to see some new footy?
Filming for Destroying Babylon was an amazing experience and I can’t thank TKP enough for crewing up with me and searching around San Francisco for new stuff to skate. It was exactly what I wanted to be doing in SF and the video came out really good. Travis has such an ill perspective on life, skating, filming, everything, and it shows in his creations. As for new shit, I’m mad excited to begin searching around Boston, filming cutty shit that nobody else wants to skate. I’ll be sending stuff to Satori, but I’d really love to focus on a full length all east coast part. Boston, Philly, NYC… all of that. But I’d say most of it will be in Boston. I’ve also go some unused SF footy that I’ll use in some future edits as well.
You’ve been battling a lot of injuries recently, and have spent a lot of your time on the board behind the VX2100 you just bought. How does it feel being behind the lens instead of in front of it?
Yeah I’m finally feeling healthy, knock on wood, and extremely grateful to be able to skate again. I messed up my hip and my knee at the end of the summer, and then a couple months ago I sprained my ankle really bad. All it takes is an injury to put everything in perspective. I was hyped to get the camera and just go out with friends and stack footage. I’m excited to go through those tapes and drop an edit or two.
In your opinion, what’s the golden era of skateboarding?
Every era of skateboarding has been important, and similar in its own ways. It goes in cycles, and that’s rad. I get most hyped on really young skaters and really old skaters.
Shout out your shout-outs homie. This interview’s done.
Word up. NS Family. Creation and Satori. TKP. Nobo. My folks and my brother. Ando and all the dudes at FTC. DLX. Dave Noonan. b0bawesome. The Twin Peaks Hostel. Pushing Plywood. The 6th and Fulton massive. Atreau. All the Mass dudes keeping it real, Credo, Boppo, Thuro, Orchard, Theory, Mutha Fuckin Skate Jawn!

================================================================================

Photos and Interview by Liam Annis
Where were you, where are you right
now, and where are you going?
I was just walking Slewella, now I’m sitting on my bed watching skate videos before I go film with Tony (Anthony Capostagno).
Give everyone a brief synopsis of what it’s like to grow up in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
I grew up with my mom, dad, and one of my older brothers until my mom went to prison when I was five, and then my brother was in and out of foster homes. I didn’t really get a chance to grow up with my other siblings, they all lived with their dads. At the time CR didn’t have much diversity and people weren’t shy about their racism. The first time I remember skating was around 3rd grade, my friend Mark would bring his board over and we would take turns trying to learn how to ollie. Then for my next birthday, my dad got me a Walmart board. Every day, for like three years straight, we would link up at the Tree. The Tree was our plaza that was completely concrete, except for this marble pyramid that you physically couldn’t skate. We’d do dumb hijinx shit like throwing snowballs at people from parking garages, breaking into buildings to skate after they closed, living off our gas station sponsors until they got cameras and figured out they were sponsoring us. Looking back, it was amazing. All the good bad and ugly made it that much better. If I could go back I wouldn’t change any of it, just relive it. I could go on forever, but just know it was a beautiful struggle to get where I am today.
Wait y’all used to break
into Walmart and skate after they closed?
Nah, never Walmart, we had a few good ones though. The M+M homies made a DIY inthe basement of this downtown apartment building and the workers would come shut the lights off and we’d have to sneak out without getting caught. We also found a way into a skywalk that connected most of the businesses downtown. After five we would go in there to escape the cold and hit endless flat ground lines. Playing cat and mouse with the cops in there was hella fun, they couldn’t figure out how to catch us even when they’d try and ambush us.
What’s the skate
scene like? Y’all got spots? Where should visitors go to skate?
The skate scene has always been pretty small. In the time I’ve been gone, it feels like it’s shrunk a lot due to the city taking away our best spots over the years. Businesses come and go, and a lot of people “grow out of skating.” The city finally gave us a fire new skatepark though and the lil homies are making the most of what’s left in the streets. My Slew fam and I also do this Annual CRapids contest/giveback usually in June. Last year DGK and New Balance blessed us with a bunch of product to give out. It’s the best feeling to be able to give back to the city that made me. I hope it inspires the next generation to have their whole crew make it together instead of the one outlier like myself. If you visit CR stop into the EduSkate skate shop and say what up to Nate Sherwood, you’ll get all the skate trivia and the lowdown on spots and contests he throws throughout the year as well.
That’s sick that your crew can give back and your sponsors are backing it. Tell us a little bit about Saved by Skateboarding?
Yeah, that’s my whole mission, to put on for my city. They need it. The Saved by Skateboarding events are dope. We get to interact with kids of all ages, give them boards, and teach them the basics of pushing around. Some of them are natural, some are just there cause they have to be, but at the end of the day they’re all genuinely having fun.
When did you make the move out
West? What was the motivation?
I always wanted to move to LA strictly for skating, I thought it was going to be like Barcelona where you can skate to every spot. I was wrong. Right after Christmas in 2012 my homie’s house got broken into and I was the only one there. They whooped my ass. I got pistol whipped, jumped, my hands zip tied behind my back. Long story short the homie felt hella bad and got me a flight to SD in January 2013.
What is this Slew nickname? What’s the origin of it all?
So the origin of the Slew is funny. CR’s nickname was Slew because of these grimy ass docks at these factory runoff lakes. One day a crew of us drove to Iowa City skatepark, and as we were walking up, this small group of kids said “Ugh let’s leave, those dirty Slew kids are here.” In all fairness, we were skate rats that didn’t always get a chance to shower before and after skating all day, but that shit fueled us. We started writing “Slew” on our boards and shoes, everywhere.
You guys all shower now after skating though right?
Skipping showers was a short period of time and usually only happened if you were the last one to call next on the shower. It used to be like six of us taking turns on one shower at Jake’s moms house, so someone was bound to get skipped every now and then. Iowa City kids always looked at Cedar Rapidians as dirty because CR always either smelled great because of Quaker Oats, or it smelled like hot garbage because of Mount Trashmore. There was little in between. Those lil Iowa city posers were more referring to our city being dirty as a whole, not so much the fact that someone didn’t shower that day. Either way we had to embrace it to fuck with them every time they saw us.
How’d you start going by Slewdacris?
When I moved to SD I was listening to Ludacris heavy and writing Slew on all my shit until one day the homie Deets was like “Yo Slewdacris, roll that shit up already.” This the crazy part though, Slewdacris low key spells out “CR is da Slew”. It’s all for the city mane.
What’s your favorite thing to do outside of skateboarding?
Shit, I like to draw, read some books, watch skate videos, plot on ways to make money, make the money, spend time with the close ones, and keep dreaming.
You had a full part in the recent DGK video
Amen
, what was it like working on that?
That was a dream come true. Stateside I was skating heavily with Quise and then they flew me out to Spain for two weeks! I think we stacked like seven minutes of Will footy out there. It was an honor to be out there with those guys. Brian, Nick, and Will are so good it’s crazy.
You also had a part in
Shrimp Blunt
, what’s it like working with Beagle?
Beagle is one of the funniest people, and sometimes that makes it hard to skate. Me, Beagz, and Theo be cracking up all day on the sesh. He helps keep skating fun and knows how to make everything look extra crispy. Shout out my dawgs Theo and Beagz.
What are you filming or working
on now?
Oh we in the kitchen my boy. Might have a lil sum with Thunder, or Shake Junt cookin up. DGK? Who knows mane, just stay tuned in and you won’t miss out.
Any thanks and shout outs?
Thank You Jesus, life coulda been a whole lot different but we here. Amen. Thanks to all my sponsors DGK, NB, Shake Junt, Thunder, Bones Bearings, BP, EduSkate skateshop. Shouts to Hendo, Slew CRew, Mobbed Mafia, ABC Hustlas, wifey, Theo, Beagz, Shane, Stevie, Rasul, Kalis, Cooley, Daughters, Liam, Tony, Brad, CR, Ruu, Luap, Nick P, Jakel, nodnarB, Teazy, Shawn, Ramon, TGerdts, Slewke, Fletch, Ev, Bux, Lil Stokes, Bubba, Lil Bubba, RDM, Shmelliot, Reece, T$ip, Joe Bone, Phlip, Mark Young, Smothers, Wheeler, Pound City 448g, Lil Ev, Ray. Shoutout everyone that ever let me sleep on their couch and or fed me when I was down bad. Mad love to Jkwon, Boston, Barcy, LBC, LA, SD, the Bay, the Midwest, the Eastcoast. Shout out Milkas for makin some fireass chocolate, shoutout BBops even they left CR, and last but not least, shout out to you for reading all of this. Wow, you did it.

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis
We interviewed you in issue three, way back in 2010. What do you remember about that?
I was really hyped on that. You guys had just started and I feel like somehow we had gotten connected on Facebook. Probably through the Maine Skateboarding page that Travis Storer was running at the time. He was doing these profiles on different skaters in Maine and I was getting out shooting with different people in Portland for that. I got a camera when I was in high school and was skating with my buddies and we were always skating this skate spot called the Kids Rink, at this place called The Zone.
What was the Zone?
The Zone was an indoor skate park in the 90’s, early 2000’s. I never went to it and it ended up closing down and then that area became where kids would go to skate and do graffiti and kind of just, get away. It was a little lawless. It was all dilapidated. That building actually burned down I think during a 4/20 party or something.
So what was the Kids Rink?
It was like a slab spot, but it had a roof so you could skate there in the winter. I started shooting with other skaters in Portland like Mike Gustafsson. He was someone I really looked up to. If people haven’t seen his parts, he’s one of the best skaters from Maine for sure. I was pretty intimidated at first. Then he introduced me to Jay Brown, who was filming videos in Boston at the time. They both were working on a New England video. There was an old issue with a Jay Brown interview I shot. I came by the office a few months ago and picked one up because I didn’t have that issue anymore. I think I probably have one at my mom’s house, but I hadn’t seen it in so long. Reading it was so funny because I’m just talking about, I’m gonna move to New York and take pictures…
Look at you now, in New York taking pictures. It’s pretty great to see you achieving that goal that you made for yourself, and having it on record.
I was super fortunate to be able to move here and go to school. I went to school for photography at Parsons. My uncle at the time lived in the city, so I came to New York to visit him a few times. He took me to the banks when I was like 13. When I was looking at going to school, I was a little torn between S.F. and New York, and I’m really glad that I came to New York.
Do you go up to Maine often these days?
Probably like three or four times a year. I would like to go more. Usually holidays and then I try to go up at the beginning of the summer and the end of the summer. They got a good scene going. Mike Babbitt just came out with a video,
Sucks To Be You
. Around that time of my interview, it felt like the scene was super strong then too. We would pull up to a spot and there would be 12 of us. It was so much fun. And they really kind of accepted me, being a younger guy, you know? Letting me hang out and shoot.
Were there any photographers around that time growing up that you were looking up to locally?
Locally? There were some other guys like Wes Cunningham. But I wanna say he was a little bit after. I don’t know, I don’t want to say I was the only one, but it was kind of a small scene.
Your camera set up 14 years ago was a Canon Rebel XSI with some lenses and three flashes. So what are you working with these days?
It’s better, but it’s not super different. There were a few years where I kind of wasn’t shooting skating for a little bit. I would say maybe like 2013 to 2017 or so. I just didn’t really have the camera set up at the time to shoot skating. Then I ended up getting some flashpoint flashes that just totally changed the game for me because you could sync at like a thousandth of a second. You could really freeze it. I have a couple 200’s and then the flashpoint 400. But I’m still using a Canon 5D Mark IV. One thing about New York or East Coast skating specifically is I feel like the kit is a little bit more pared down because of the nature of the way you’re skating out here. I’m not really in a car, you’re carrying your gear around. I usually only bring like one light stand. I’ll have the more powerful flash on the stand and that’s kind of my key light, then I’ll either handhold one or have one closer to the ground. I try to have one light pretty close to the ground because that’s how to get the texture of the spot. Getting the light sort of skimming across the ground and showing how rough the spots are out here. Lighting a spot here is like a showcase of how rugged the spot is, you know?
You graduated almost a decade ago. What have you been doing?
Just freelancing in the photo industry pretty much. I did an internship when I was in school that was with a cosmetics photographer. It was sort of random, but we shot all these makeup ads or skincare products. After that I worked for a photo booth company, which was pretty funny. It was cool because I used to go all over the country just doing weird events. But I’ve always been doing things like on set lighting and photo assisting. More recently I’ve been getting into digital teching, which is pretty much managing the computer that the photographer is shooting to, I guess quality control. If the photographer’s shooting and the client is giving feedback, you’re kind of relaying that information to the photographer or you’re managing the files. I’ve been starting to get some more of my own clients recently too. Shooting a lot more sportswear and athletic type stuff, like people in motion. I feel like shooting skating has helped me learn how to do that. Looking at people’s body positioning when they’re doing active stuff.
What are some pros and cons to freelancing?
The pros would definitely be the flexibility. To shoot skating you have to be able to get out pretty frequently. I still wish I could get out more than I do, but I’m working on it. The cons is it’s pretty unpredictable. Just the mental stress of trying to get through those slower times and staying busy. You really have to discipline yourself. But if you’re freelancing for a while, you’ll end up meeting people and they’ll help you out and you help them out.
Would you ever shoot actual sports, like basketball?
I think it would be cool to shoot editorial stuff, but not shooting a game or anything. Atiba does a lot of that. Atiba is definitely someone that I looked up to as well. I think he struck a really good balance of being a total legend in the skate world, but he also is able to shoot music and do stuff with Canon. He does all these cool projects and it seems like he just has a lot going on. I always thought that was super cool that he’s not afraid to get into other stuff.
Who are your favorite crews or skaters to go out and shoot with?
I go out with a few different crews for sure. I like skating with Naquan Rollins a lot because he always has a solid crew when he’s in the city. I really appreciate what he does because he shines a light on the New York skate scene in a good way. He’s from the city, and I always thought that was cool. I’ll go out with Jasper, Neema, and Eric Swick and those dudes a lot. I really like skating with Brandon Stepanow and Neil Herrick. It kind of ties into being freelance too, my schedule’s a little chaotic, so I just bounce around with different filmers. That’s my approach to getting out with people usually, just hitting up filmers because people are already hitting them up.
Speaking of Neil Herrick, is he the most productive skater ever?
He is definitely up there. It’s shocking if you go out with him and he doesn’t get a clip.He always has a list of five things that he could do. If you name a neighborhood, he’ll be like, “Oh, I got this, this and this that I’d be down to try over there.” I feel like there’s never a time where you link up with him to skate and he doesn’t know what he wants to do.
Tell me about Noah’s cover from issue 75. There was some pretty intense security stuff going on?
What’s so funny about that is I didn’t even know that they had kind of held back the security guard until the video came out. I’m not even kidding. The way the spot is, those guys are up there and I was down below. I was just focused on trying to make sure I was ready to go. It can be a little hectic getting clips out here.
Is there anywhere you’re trying to travel to that you haven’t been yet?
I really appreciate the Japanese skate culture and the way they approach filming and photos. I would love to go out to Tokyo or Yokohama and just stay out there for a little while and shoot. That’s been on my mind. But I’m pretty down to go wherever. I just went to L.A. for the first time last winter. I don’t know why it took me so long to get out there.
Favorite and least favorite things about Maine?
Obviously my homies that I’ve known for a long time. Every time I go up there we all get together and it’s such good times linking up with them again. Most of them still skate, and they still get out all the time. A new skateshop opened up there called Sal’s, and that’s been really good for the scene. Besides that, nature. I feel like the longer I’ve been in the city, the more I appreciate the fact it’s just a really beautiful place, with the ocean and the trees and everything. I’d like to get more into doing some camping and stuff like that. Obviously the winter is really brutal up there, so that would probably be my least favorite part.
What about favorite and least favorite things in New York?
I mean, the skate scene here. It’s just so fun. There’s so many people and you can pretty much go to a spot or a park or whatever and you’re gonna run into someone that you’re friends with. There’s always stuff going on and, and there’s always something to do, or there’s a new spot. A lot of skate parks popping up too, that’s been really great. The worst part I would say is it can just be tiring sometimes. Even though that’s kind of what I just mentioned was my favorite part, the lifestyle here, it’s so fast sometimes. I feel like last year I was really getting out shooting and trying to work on my photo stuff that’s outside of skateboarding and was just kind of pushing myself. So I’m trying to be more conscious of taking care of myself, taking it a little slower.

================================================================================

Where you from and where’s the coolest place you’ve been?
Born in West Texas, but I’ve lived in Albuquerque for fifteen years so that’s over half my life. So that’s more my home than anything. Coolest place I’ve been to yet I’d have to say is a tie between Miami and NYC and San Francisco is up there as well you know, that’s the fucking spot. Can’t pick one, like all three of them have had a huge effect on how I perceive skateboarding and the difference in the environment, and how people skate. Being from New Mexico it’s just like, we have ditches and that’s it. But going to big metropolitan areas it’s like, “whoa, we don’t have this here let’s fucking shred.”
What was up with Miami?
Miami was sick, but we did have to do a lot more driving. But there’s probably two good ledges in the city that I live in, and in Miami it was just like we’re going to this school, and there’s just butter ledges everywhere, it’s like a skatepark at a school.
So how’d you get into skating?
I got into skating, I gotta say, during that whole Tony Hawk boom when I was a little kid in west Texas. And caught some wind of some x games bullshit that was going on. And right after that I moved to Albuquerque and there was a ditch right at the end of my block.
Sick.
So I’m like oh cool I can skate here all the time. We had skateparks, but they were on the other side of the town, same with the shop. I’d be fucking fourteen riding the bus for two hours to get a board and then skate the park, go home and tear the board up in the ditch.
How’d you get into photography?
Um, I started out mainly filming. Since I started skateboarding I had the old vhs camcorder that my step dad gave me, so I always filmed my brother, and the neighborhood kids skate. And I got the chance to take a photography class at school and after that I just liked photo more than video. Like video is fucking badass but just something about being still, and it creates a whole different story. You wonder the circumstances, you wonder what they had to go through.
So what’s up with the gallery you own?
I mean, getting into a gallery is hard thing to do out here. You know, so when I had enough cash to open up my own spot, do it my own way, it opened up a whole new world for my work and friends of mine. I started it before I moved to SF, ran it for six months, and then moved to live with my girlfriend. Ditched the whole gallery thing. Then right when I got back, I had my eye out on certain spots that I thought would do well, and a friend of mine, who also moved out to the bay, I swooped in on his spot. The name is Separation.
Sick. So what cameras are you usually packing?
At the moment I’m doing all analog. Funnily enough Nich Kunz gave me what I’m shooting on right now. But last time I was in SF I was shooting on the Canon AE1 and with a sony dslr also. Then my Canon locked up on me, some mechanical problem, and Kunz just goes, “Here my friend was about to toss this it’s a Minolta SRT202.” And the cool thing is that it was Toad’s old camera.
Rad, shout out to Toad haha.
I met Toad way back in the day he came through on some trip, I had to have been like fifteen, sixteen and we were skating this pool. It was super funny.
So what’s the full set up, lenses? Any digital?
At the moment no digital, when I moved back to Albuquerque I had to sell all my digital equipment to get my spot. Some of the photos of Dave were shot on the Sony dslr, and that had interchangeable lenses, the whole nine. Very few flashes, I have one strobe, but most of my skate photography is natural light.
So you build dark rooms a bunch right? You do all your own printing?
I do, yes. I used to print in my gallery, but I moved into a one bedroom spot and my living room is my room, and what would be my bedroom is my darkroom.
Fuck yeah. Have any photo influences?
Matt Price, Grant Brittain, good homie of mine Rocky Norton. As of recently, just like mad heads on the internet, like where did all you guys come from? I see the sickest fucking pictures all day. From Indiana, New Orleans, I’m like what the fuck? I’d also have to say Sam Milianta, from Utah. Just a go getter, I love his shit.
Whats your biggest photo accomplishment?
Uh, I’ve made two publications, I’m working on three more at the moment, haha. I printed my first book, right when I got back from SF last November, made twenty copies. I sold em the first week, I don’t even have one myself, I sold my copy haha.
What’s yr favorite beer?
Tough one. I’m drinking Modelo especial on the regular, but I work at a bar. So I get introduced to some killer beer. I had one from Italy, it’s called Bachiammi Lipsia. Translates to kiss of the lips. It’s a sea salt sour. It was fucking excellent. It was almost like drinking pickle juice.
Gross, favorite candy?
Twizzlers.
What happened last time you were in sf bombing hills?
Man, on my last day there after leaving the Skate Jawn bbq at 3rd and army, we went to bomb some hills up by twin peaks and uhhh, I fucking cracked an ollie over a rough spot, lost my balance, and landed shifty and fractured my skull. I didn’t split my head open, I just fractured the skull, and I didn’t find out until three days after. I just had a consistent headache the whole time driving back, taking mad Tylenol and shit, it just wasn’t going away.
Fuck.
So I went to the ER, they saw me in five minutes and were just like, “Your brain’s bleeding.”
Are you skating again yet?
I am skating. The two month recovery period was fucked too. Just gathering myself again, it was kind of tough. But absolutely, skating.
Goals for the next three hours?
Two more beers, couple cigarettes, and pass the fuck out.

================================================================================

Congrats on the Sea Level part it came out real good. Tell us about the video and so forth.
I’m grateful for having the opportunity to be a part of
Sea Level
. Everyone that was involved came from all over the place, and we all skate so differently then each other. It made for a real diverse video and was a fun experience overall!
This time around it must have been nice not having to worry about making the video as well as having a part. What was it like filming for
Sea Level
rather than
Mixed Effect
or
Whatever Feels Right
?
It was a lot different. I could really focus on actually skating and not stress or deal with any of the other obstacles that making a video entails. Chris and Elliott did a great job.
Recently you’ve made a few shorts for ESNC clothing, what was the concept behind that and what inspired it?
My goal was to show what it is really like to go out skating on a February night in Portland, Maine. The idea for the shorts came from listening to Threepeeohs beats. I’m always on the hunt for new and inspiring music.
What do you got going on now? Are you filming for any upcoming projects or anything in the works?
Right now I’mj ust trying to stack as much footage as I can. There may be a short ESNC promo happening.
Anyone you would like to thank that’s helped you out along the way?
I want to thank
Skate Jawn
, Travis Storer, Sam Mckenna, Mike G, and all of the homies I skate with!

================================================================================

Interview by Sean Bendon. Photos by Sam McKenna.
Where did you move from and when did you move to NYC?
I’m from the Inland Empire, which is like 30-40 minutes east of LA, it’s kind of like the suburbs. But I moved to NYC in 2015 to go to college.
Why’d you come to school out here?
I was fucking up in high school but I’m Chumash Native American so I get free college tuition. They blessed me. But I was like, damn what do I want to do? I just wanted to skate, and New York is where you should skate. So I was like, I’ll just do good one year in high school so I can go to college and I ended up getting a degree.
You’ve been getting hooked up with Blue Couch boards lately right? How’d that happen?
My homie Jasper Stieve moved out here and we were vibing and then he got on Blue Couch for a bit and was like “Yo Dane what’s good? This is my homie Noah.” So Jasper hooked it up and I was on that for a while, but I just recently left. There were no hard feelings or anything, I just don’t feel like being on anything right now. I just want to skate without being tied down. But I love all those dudes, Dane, Mecca, Sam, Zac, all of them.
You’re taking a step away from board sponsors?
Yeah, I just don’t want to have to worry about filming all the time. It’s a war when you want to skate but someone has a camera so you’re like “fuck now I gotta try hard but I really don’t wanna slam.” Like, let’s just kick it.
Let’s talk about your
Sportsmanshit
part. What’s the story behind that last trick?
Which one was it?
The gap back 50-50 roll down primo-esque one.
Oh! All these heads make fun of me for the spots I find cause they’re fucking stupid, and that spot was one of them. I told them I found this bump to ledge and they were like “This isn’t a fucking bump to ledge, this is just hard.” But I finally got my homie Brandon Stepanow to go with me. Every time my back truck would kinda slide out cause I was going so fast. It happened a gang of times and I kept slamming. But that one, I don’t know what happened. I literally just held on for dear life.
How was filming for that part?
That was all Brandon. I had some really old clips in it from when I first moved to New York. There’s actually a clip of me skating in front of my dorm. We were filming it for so long and it finally came to fruition.
Who’s the person wearing a mask pre-Covid in your
Sportsmanshit
part?
That’s me. That’s actually the line I filmed in front of my dorm.
Why were you wearing a mask?
It was fucking cold. It kept my nose warm. It’s easy to wear a mask in the winter.
What was your life like prior to Covid-19 and the quarantine?
I was working as a tutor. It was a drastic change when schools went online. It was a war. No schools were ready for that and it was really shocking. I actually taught right next to Fat Kid skatepark. It’s a super low-income school and I work with this program called Practice Makes Perfect that goes into schools to help out. They’re the homies.
What have been you doing all your free time since the pandemic started?
Running up unemployment. Never been so hyped to be unemployed in my life. I was making way more off it which is sad and I had all the free time in the world. At first when everyone was super serious and stayed inside, it was just a lot of acid and shrooms. We were so bored. I had just gotten a record player and a projector. It was fire.
Skaters these days seem a lot more health conscious. Do you subscribe to that side of skating?
I mean yeah, for now. I want to take care of my body so I can keep skating. It’s sick to get fucked up, but it’s also sick to be healthy. Honestly Salba’s been my inspiration. The way he stretches. Shoutout Salba.
You just got back at like 5:00 AM from a road trip. How was it?
I left the night of the blizzard to drive out to California with my sister to see my mom for the holidays. It took us six and a half hours to get to Baltimore. It was armageddon on the freeway. Our car was drifting and shit. I saw like 40 cars crashed in the snow, but we made it to Cali and back.
Your sister lives out here too?
All my siblings do. I got three other ones. I’m the youngest. One of my sisters lives down the street. She used to live with the dude who started Burning Man.
Do any of your siblings skate?
My brother did. He’s my roommate.
Got any plans for 2021?
Still trying to learn how to kickflip. 2020 was supposed to be my year for that but all this shit happened. If you have a good kickflip when you’re young you have a future.
Last words?
I love all my homies. I love my family. Fuck cops. Steal from corporations. Life is beautiful.

================================================================================

Where you at? What you doing today?
I’m home now drinking some beers while I answer these questions. I was out fishing in NJ prior to this.
What was the first magazine you had a photo in?
It was Transworld back in 1994. I contributed a portrait photo of Ron Knigge for his Pro Spotlight. He lived a few towns over from me. We used to chill, skate, shoot pics & film a lot. I also shot a Dead End ad of JP. Lots that was published in the same issue.
What was the first skate magazine from Philly?
I’m guessing
Journal
? Is this a trick question?
How many flashes have you broke?
Personally probably 2-3 times. But with skateboards hitting them, probably 5+. Are you referring this question to the footage of me focusing a flash in Chomp On This? haha…If so, I was in Buenos Aires during that mishap. My flash wouldn’t fire off when I needed it the most. Breaking it seemed right at the time.
You take photos and video? How do you decide which? Any preference?
Back in the 90s there wasn’t usually a photographer / filmer duo. I usually shot the photos first. Then when I was confident on getting the image, I’d switch over to video. This was pre digital camera days. So I had to make sure I trusted my judgement. Obviously you can’t preview 35mm film on the spot.
Ever take photos and video at same time?
Yes…a few times. Now when I think of it, I believe I was shooting a sequence and filming on most of them. Sometimes I’d set up my video camera while shooting stills.
Love Park is gone. How are you coping?
Mentally it sucks so bad. Love was the first place I been to in Philly. When I found out that the demolition was happening soon, I’d cruise by a few times a week. I was usually shooting architectural shots for a soon to be project. Then I would grab my board and just roll around. I had a good run there. But prior, I really haven’t been there since 2011 maybe? And I live 10 minutes away too. Basically as time went by, I got more family orientated. My interests changed to other things too. Regardless, I feel bad for the current generation of skaters that were holding it down there. I’m talking about the Sabotage crew. They kept Love alive in its last years.
What kinda subjects you shoot besides skating?
My family. But for other jobs, it’s been live music venues, models, landscapes, products and anything action orientated. Oh…and video editing for production companies too.
Were you at Love for the Sub Zero contest(s)?
Yes…the last one back in September 1994. That was my first time in Philly. It was so surreal! Banked ramps and wedge gaps were set up in the middle of the park. Their was an MC and someone mixing hip hop beats with 2 turntables. It might of been some of the guys of The Roots crew. I just remembered speakers set up blaring everything out. It was the wild west back then! Cops would just walk through not giving a fuck! I still call it the “Glory Days.” Jason Lee was there doing super fresh 360 kick flips in his white Airwalks. Jamie Thomas was there too. As well as all the Philly locals. A few months later I moved down permanently from North Jersey, where I grew up. I needed a change. I became addicted to the Philly scene.
What do you think of photoshopping skate photos?
Depends…If you want to PS a person out in the frame, then so be it.
Ever have a skater try to tell you how to shoot? Do you care?
Yeah I think Jamie Thomas did on a few occasions. No big deal. I want them to be happy, if they have a certain visual that’s good. But if it sucks, I’d let them know.
You did a job for Penthouse? How was that?
Nothing special. I just shot an interview with Bam Margera for it. But then after that it led me to shooting a porno at his house. Couples were straight up fucking on his skate ramps. It was a trip. I have a shot where Kerry (Getz) was front board sliding a rail. In the foreground some dude is pounding this chick doggy style!
Worst photo gig you’ve done? Why?
Cage The Elephant band. I got hired by Sony to shoot them up in Brooklyn. As I was walking to the venue, I noticed a bunch of younger kids protesting about some bullshit. I think it was over corporate stores moving their business into the neighborhoods. Let me clarify I’m in Williamsburg, aka Hipster central. So I was watching these idiots blocking the street with trash, smashing windows, and slashing tires. Then I notice a few of them running by my wife’s car. I soon hear “sssssssssssss” sound. I went over to check it out, and 2 tires were slashed! If killing rich suburban Hipsters were legal, sign me up. I wanted revenge so bad. But Karma is a bitch. I seen a bunch of them getting arrested by undercovers. So after that I had to man up and do my job. That I did, but It was hard to grind it out through the night. After the show, I had to get the car towed to a repair place at 2am, then take a train and crash at my friends in NJ, then hop on a train back to Brooklyn the next morning and pay $500+on tires and hourly fees. Luckily it was a good paying gig. But still….fuck all Hipsters!
Whats your Favorite cover you’ve shot?
Probably my first Slap cover. It was my best friend I grew up with, Matt. We were shooting for the fun of it. He did a unique 50-50 on some slanted flat bar. I submitted it to Slap when I was freelancing around for various magazines. Not long after after, I went out to the Long Beach Tradeshow in 96 or 97. Someone told me I had the cover of Slap. I thought it was a joke. But when I saw it circulating around at the event, I was really hyped on it. Thanks Lance!
Last pic you shot? Last skate pic?
As of this interview, BBQ wings from my iphone. My Wife made me pick some up…hahaha. I literally document everything. But skate wise, it would be Brian Panebianco at Love Park (4/2/2016). I was driving by and saw him flying down the last skate-able area. It was the 7 stairs by the welcome center. In the background you can see the total destruction of the lower fountain ledges. I was just shooting for personal fun. When I left I realized that was probably the last skate pic I’d ever shoot there. I will definitely print it up and frame it sometime. 22 years prior I believe my first pic I took there was Stevie Williams. He did a heel flip on a banked ramp during that last Love Sub Zero contest. Unfortunately I can’t find the original slide now.
Ever have to shoot / skate with someone you didn’t want to?
Yeah been there done that. Not giving up names though…haha.
Maddest you’ve seen Getz?
To the point where he would focus his skateboard on his head. Wasn’t just a one shot deal. He would keep slamming the board over his head till it would break.
Next camera you’d buy?
Canon 1DS-Mark 2…It’s a workhorse!
Social media? Fun or destroying the world?
It’s ok, But I feel its been ruining the excitement and anticipation in regards to the skateboard industry. I don’t get excited by looking at skate mags or videos anymore. Everything is right at your finger tips 24/7 (websites, Facebook, Instagram clips, etc.) Last video I was really hyped on was
Sabotage 4
. The realest of the real!
Favorite video you’ve been a part of?
Off the top of my head right now,
Jump Off a Building
,
CKY2K
,
Photosynthesis
and
Chomp On This
.
This isn’t a question but your C
homp On This
part is sick. I watched that video a million times when it came out.
Haha thanks. That was a fun and frustrating part to film.
Favorite trip you’ve been on? longest?
Hands down the Habitat trip to Costa Rica back in 2001. You just had to be there to understand its awesomeness. Longest would probably be in South America with the New Deal team? 2nd would be with the DC crew in Barcelona 2002.
Any advice for people trying to come up in photography?
Be original.

================================================================================

Where you from?
I was born and raised in Springfield, Massachusetts.
What are your favorite things about Massachusetts?
I like the fact that I live so close to Boston, because I have a bunch of good friends out there and it’s always a good time in the city. There are a bunch of really good dudes who have come out of Mass, so it’s good to keep in touch with them and meet up when possible. Umass is also really close to me, and that place is practically its own town.
What kind of spots you like?
I enjoy skating some nice handrails and I really like spots that have a ledge and then either a gap or a rail to skate afterwards. It’s just something about skating one after the other that makes it so fun. I really like all of the different types of spots we’ve got here on the East Coast.
Do you get sacked a lot?
I’m not trying to jinx myself, but no, not really. Although, I did have a really close call on this long rail in Boston a few weeks ago. Luckily I just hit my ass cheek on the end of the rail.
What does America mean to you?
Man, thats tough. Well, one could say that America is so great because of the fact that all kinds of people can come from completely different walks of life, whether it be rich or poor, and give meaning to their life in whichever way they desire. Some of the most deprived people, who come from absolutely nothing, can overcome great hardships and create a sustainable life for themselves, or even accomplish greatness. I know this sounds really cliche, but in America, anyone can do whatever they set their minds to, as long as they have the drive and determination to overcome obstacles that stand in the way of their ultimate goals.
What you study?
I go to school for Marketing Communications/Advertising, but to be quite honest, I’m not too sure of exactly what I would like to do with it. There are so many options for me in having this major, so at least I have that. It just kind of sucks to have to balance out school with skating during each semester because I typically only get a few hours to skate each week.
Who’s yr favorite TV redneck?
Hmm, either Daryl from The Walking Dead or Psy from Duck Dynasty.
Which one would win in a fight?
Daryl for sure because he’s always equipped with his cross- bow! Psy is old and just has his duck call reeds.
What do you prefer: Eddie Comini with scum stache or without?
Definitely with! He looks like he’s twelve when he shaves it off now. Well, a twelve year-old that has a mustache.
If you could choose three items to put in a time capsule to be opened in 100 years what would they be?
A bottle of whiskey, a blunt, and a burrito from El Pelon that can never go bad, because the person who opens that time capsule would be pretty hyped.
Craziest UMass party moment?
We went to this crazy frat party that was outside and it had to have a good 400 people there. Greg Cotto ended up shitting on this dudes car while he was passed out inside of it and a bunch of people pissed in empty beer cans and were chucking them into the crowds of wasted college bros. It was awesome! He shit all over the dudes windshield and hood!
What’s the maddest yr parents have ever been at you?
When I had an interview with a portrait of me blowing smoke. Haha, good times!
Last time you had to deal with cops?
For something other than skating? I was pulled over while parked directly in front of my friends driveway while we were smoking. As I rolled my window down, smoke poured into the cops faces and I was whipped right out of my car without any chance to hand them my license and registration. I guess they had no regard for protocol this time.
What ended up happening?
I just got a $100 ticket and my friend came through by pitching in 50 bucks!
If you could have dinner with any person living or dead who’d it be?
I’ve thought about this so many times, and every time I come up with someone new. I’m gonna go with Dave Chappelle this time though.
Shout outs?
Well, I would first like to thank you for having this interview with me. I would also like to thank Rob Collins for the photos, Dan and Frank over at Theory Skate Shop along with all of my friends in Western Mass, Will Campbell over at Nike, Benny, Upson and Seber over at Hardtimes & 502, Jared Lucas and Daniel Costanza at Bones, Roger Cameron at Magical Go-Go, Mikey Pioggia, Greg Sanocki, Scott Bedard, Alex Pelletier, my girlfriend Deanna, my family, and any others who I may have left out! Now time to go do some homework.

================================================================================

Do you have a rat tail?
Bruns.
Are you going to miss the Jefferson house?
Yeah so many good times. NJ homies coming through, stoning, souling, SKATE JAWN.
What is Jerz to you?
New Jersey or die.
Does Kevin Winters influence little Johnny?
Hahaha for sure. Johnny is Kev and Kev is Johnny.
Favorite music?
Hightower, Bad Brains, Wu-Tang, Big L, Black Flag, Electric Wizard. I don’t know that question is hard.
Longest skate trip you’ve been on?
Freshman year at the Jefferson house.
Most fun trick?
Frontside air.
What first influenced you to skate: transition or street skating?
I grew up skating this skate park in Florida called Ramp 48. I’ve always liked skating parks more, so I guess being a little park rat made me like tran and that kind of shit more.
How many years have you been skating?
10.
Do you love the couch?
Who doesn’t?
Spliff or heady J?
Spliff til tha casket dips.
How sick is it to grow up with two brothers that skate?
It’s the best, always someone to skate with, and seeing one of my brothers get some gets me fucking stoked.
Who do you see slam hardest on the regs?
Haha Mitchell for sure.
Favorite park you ever skated?
FDR.
What do you think of pool skating?
Pools are the best, funnest thing to skate.

================================================================================

First, when and how did you start skateboarding?
I started skateboarding when I was a kid. My uncle was a surfer, skateboarder, and a punk rocker guy and he used to send us skateboards when we were young. We didn’t know how to ride them but whenever we’d go visit him in New York he would take us to a skateboard park. This is probably ’70s, around there, I was born in 1968. When I was young I moved here to San Jose. Right when I got out of the moving truck the kids across the street were skateboarding so it was kind of immediate, just grabbed my board and started hanging out with those two guys all throughout high school, skating curbs and going to Winchester park.
Sid Enck, bs smith
When and how did you start shooting photos?
Well we would have to skip 10 years there.
Oh, let’s not skip 10 years.
Oh it’s easy to skip 10 years. That was just high school, I always continued skating, and at the end of high school I started getting more into surfing. My brother and my uncle, the crazy punk rock uncle, moved to Hawaii. When I graduated I just went straight there, everyone else was all, “oh, my S.A.Ts and I’m going to this college,” and I was like “bye” and went to Hawaii for 5 years. It wasn’t until I came back to San Jose that I met some of the people I would end up hanging out with for a long time like Salman Agah, Jason Adams, and Tim Brauch. It was almost immediate when I came home. I think I was in the Safeway by my house and I saw Salman. We had known each other a little bit and he was in a class with my younger brother. He was kind of like, “Hey, what are you doing?” I had just moved back so we went and skated this little half pipe. Salman’s friends were meeting us there which included Jason Adams, Sean Maduley, and Edward Devera. I just ended up hanging out with them, even though I was like 10 years older. Those were the people I was skating with. It went forward from there, skating skating skating. At the same time I was going to junior college and took a few classes, ya know, an art class and a photography class. My grandfather was an avid photographer, his eye sight was going bad so he started getting a camera with auto focus and different things so he gave me his Nikon FE2. I would notice when a photographer would come and Jason would do something or Tim would do something. then all of a sudden you would see it in Transworld, or a thing in Thrasher and I was like, “oh, okay, I see these things all the time.” These guys just skating all the time and most of the time there was never a photographer around. I had a camera and thought maybe I should try. It was really the time when Tobin Yelland came, and him and Jason shot a photo and it’s kind of a famous photo of him, or at least it’s my favorite photo of him. He’s 5050 grinding a rail but it was curved and Tobin was at the bottom, really right underneath him, and it’s right before he touched down. He’s got his Think board where it was him on fire, brand new board, and it was just an awesome photo. You see the full page photo in the mag and you think “I wanna try to do that,” you know?
Israel Forbes, fs pivot on qp made from old decks
How long from that point of being inspired by Tobin to where you were shooting professionally?
Well, I’ve always been a very slow learner, and this isn’t digital photography, this is film photography so there was a lot of a learning curve. I had to get a fisheye, figure out how to use flashes and stuff like that so it must have been maybe two years Tim, and they needed photos for ads. We would go try, then we would try again and again, and finally we would get something that they could use. At the time I was living in a big punk house of 10 guys with small little rooms so it was cheap, I only had to make a certain amount of money to survive. There were always photographers that would come to town and give you little tips, things like that. I even had one guy write me a little cheat sheet, and I used that cheat sheet for a really long time. It felt really good to get that first ad, it felt even better to get one that wasn’t an ad, where you’re just sending it somewhere. Which seemed crazy too. I would just send the negative, like “oh, I’m just gonna send the negative to Grant at Transworld.” They’re just gone. You don’t have a computer with a backup file, you just send em.
Would they call you to tell you it’d be in the magazine or would you just see it?
They never called you, you’d just see it or you’d get a check. I also remember getting a letter from Grant, the first few times, it was a stock letter he would send to photographers with check boxes. What you’re doing wrong, and what you’re doing right. A way of not just saying, “dude, you suck.” He had a nice way of saying you need to not shoot so slow or… you know what I mean.
Jason Adams, tree ride
Who all did you work for? You said you worked for Skateboarder?
I worked for Skateboarder for about two years. I was never really staff for anyone, I always did stuff for Transworld just being here in San Jose. Of course Slap were the people I always tried to send things to first, because I thought Slap was the best skateboard magazine pretty much ever, and Lance Dawes published some photos for me. I never really got in Thrasher too much, I’ve done a few things for them but I never really had a connection with them. At the same time Jason was riding for Vans and I knew the team manager as well, so I got to go on some trips with them. The cool thing about Skateboarder when I was there was that I was allowed to contribute to Big Brother as well, they just wanted to see it and get a first crack at it. They were on the higher echelon of photography and Big Brother was… Big Brother.
Some of your most memorable experiences related to skateboarding?
Always getting to shoot with new people is rad. You’re on a Vans trip and Cardiel, Julien, and Jason Jesse are on it. It’s really like, “whoa, I get to shoot these guys, super rad.” I did a lot of trips with Vans when they were doing the Pro Series. It was Julien, Karma, Alan all these different people and we did a lot of trips, went to Oregon to go skate Burnside, East Coast trips, got to go to Europe. I remember there’s a photo I have of Julien that was a big black and white pool photo of him, which was really awesome. We would go on trips and the team manager would say we need a Julien photo, he didn’t want to take photos with us.
(Door opens)
Jason Adams: “Uh oh, you’re talking, shit.”
Speak of the devil…
Jason: I’ll leave ya be.
Do you still shoot much skateboarding?
No, not really.
Al Partanen, bs air
Did Slap going out have something to do with that?
Yeah, they were always a constant inspiration, somewhere I knew I could get my stuff used. It was a combination of a lot of things. When I worked at Skateboarder, slowly the people I was photographing weren’t what they wanted. I wasn’t a get up and go photographer with the book with all the spots, driving around, I don’t even drive a car. After I stopped working for Skateboarder I was still shooting a lot of ads and things until the downturn of the economy when all the programs were slimmed down. They were already paying so many people to shoot and half the magazine was shot by other people. They started telling people they didn’t need any more submissions. It sucks to hear that when you’re a freelance photographer, and at the same time I was getting older. I was still always skating and shooting with Jason and people in San Jose cause they were in front of me. As for the books, I did the book “With A Camera From Marc” which was all about a little Pentax 35mm camera Marc Johnson gave me. It’s crazy to think because I had this Nikon FE2 and a T4, but I would never pull out the FE2 unless it was time to shoot skate photos. They’re not much different, but the camera Marc gave me had a camera strap. I never liked straps, they were always in the way when I was trying to get what I wanted, I always took it off of my cameras. Once Marc gave me the Pentax I started to wear it. It got me into a different trajectory, a different route, I started to see things a little bit differently and my skate photography started to be more with that camera.
I published that book and was making almost nothing off skateboard photography, working some other random jobs. I was more into shooting portraits and things going on, though I was still getting a lot of work with people like Enjoi, getting to go on trips and I lived with a lot the guys over at the mansion. I was shooting photos of people on the team doing whatever they did, being themselves, and actually getting an ad out of it and getting paid. When Matt Eversole was doing it he was my roommate and he would come over and ask what I had. “Oh, I have this photo of Jerry in his underwear and a photo of Louie, here’s this one.” He would see something in it and make it into an ad. It was just being at the right place at the right time and transitioning from one to another.
Peter Gunn
How many zines do you think you’ve made?
Well zines are kind of crazy, I’ve made maybe 10… or 5 or 6. At the same time I got hooked up with Ray Potes at Hamburger Eyes and started to contribute to them. They published a few of my zines which was really rad. I’ve always made zines with my friends, Tim Brauch and different people, it was something to do, take your photographs and make it into a zine. At one point me and Ray Stevens had a DJ night at a local bar here. We would play punk records on one record player with 2 speakers. I actually made a zine every week for 3 or 4 years. It was before blogs, so instead of having a blog I made a zine about the week before and whatever happened that week. It would be like what happened at the last punk night, who got drunk, who made out, who barfed, those kinds of things. I think I have 160 or 170 of those.
Now, you have Seeing Things Gallery here in San Jose.
I was always doing different art and photography shows and things, then once the Print Exchange Program came around I started to curate that show. I brought it around to London, New York, Salt Lake City, all these different places. I started to figure out I was pretty good at putting together art shows and know a lot of different people from skateboarding. That’s basically what we show at the gallery, people that I know from skateboarding and the Print Exchange.
John Cardiel, fs slash
See Jai’s present and previous shows, as well as his books, at Seeingthingsgallery.com

================================================================================

Where y’all from?
Born in NJ, living in East Stroudsburg, PA.
Age
19.
Who got you into skating and who is your influence currently?
John Blackmore and this kid Ian Seagraves would skate over to my house and I would just mess around on their boards. Then my stepbrother at the time got a skateboard, and shortly after I got one. The one kid Ian had an old airplane hangar and a mansion that his family inherited from his grandfather. In the hangar he had a kicker and this mini pipe with no flat bottom and a ledge that we would skate all day and sometimes in the mansion. Ian eventually stopped skating and turned into a juggalo. A few years later him and Sean set up this kid we called “Mike on a Bike.” They stabbed him like 40 times and buried him in the snow and took shit from his car and left. They were putting shit on Facebook saying how they killed some kid. This guy found a bloody meat cleaver and then they found the kids body and now Ian and Sean are in jail for life.
Damn that’s O.D. with the murders.
OHH DEE. I’m mostly influenced by my friends Matt Roberge, Jake Baldini, James Juckett, and Kayla Vitale.
Who is Kayla Vitale?
My girlfriend.
What has she influenced you to do?
She has her priorities straight. She influences me to be a loyal friend and to stay positive.
Damn good answer. Why’d Bush knock down the towers?
Shit that’s beyond me. I think Jadakiss might know.
Yo this shit supposed to be about j3t right?
Yeah.
Okay, so who has parts?
Me, James Juckett, Jake Baldini, and Theo Korkidas.
Whose part are you looking forward to most?
James Juckett, he OD’d.
He’s dead!?
Nah he OD’d on footage. I think he’s fine.
What was it like filming for the video?
We would just go to little nowhere towns and just skate random unseen spots that James most likely found on google earth or we just happened to run into. We took a trip to Rhode Island and Boston and few to NY, which were sick, but other than that we just stuck around Strousdburg and small towns in PA.
Favorite skate video
Mindfield.
Favorite video part
Jake Johnson
Mindfield.
What was the best spot you found?
One of my favorites was this bank to wooden fence. Some lady was watching us try to wallride it and I thought she was going to kick us out because it was her house, but she didn’t care at all. There is also that giant rock bank in the middle of a parking lot.

================================================================================

Whatʼs the biggest thing youʼve noticed about your  lifestyle changing because of quarantine?
My lifeʼs pretty much the same. I canʼt socialize outside of skateboarding and that  sucks. My work is nickel and diming me more and more everyday.
How would you envision you would approach the  situation weʼre in now a year ago versus the reality of it  today?
Honestly, I think I would have gone about it the exact same way. Calm down the  people that are tripping out and try and just live through it. I did immediately ask  myself of what my parents would do in this situation and God knows I donʼt think  they would have a good answer. I think that every boomer that would have run into  a pandemic and lost their jobs earlier in life they would have shit themselves. I  donʼt think I would have done anything different. We skated the backyard, we  made a video.
Letʼs talk about the video “Skits and Friends and Yeah”  by Rocco Caravelli. Do you think the pandemic actually  helped move it along?
It definitely helped for me. When I was back home in Portland I had more reason  to not see anybody else and just go skate stuff. I went back two times during  quarantine and pretty much went to a spot everyday with Rocco. I think  that solidified finalizing that project. It was my first part.
This video was a few years in the making, right?
Yeah, I think Rocco went four years on this video. Which is pretty rad in my  opinion. I donʼt think people do that kind of stuff anymore, and I like the way he  put it out. He hasnʼt put it online, kind of expecting the culture to not just rip it and  put online immediately.
Do you think releasing a project like this adds to the  credibility or passion associated with it?
Honestly, I think that full video parts come out every year and I donʼt remember  them. Because they get put straight online and I never have to put any effort into  seeing them. They become laborious after-work viewing. I think putting four years  into a video says a hell of a lot about it. And releasing it in a way that you make  people aware of your work and hopefully they have to work to view it too. And it  shows a little bit of mutual response and participation before actually viewing. If  you know the reason to watch this and you want to watch this, and you take the  time to get the DVD, youʼre already so many more steps up the staircase towards  enjoying the video. There was a central theme that tied the video together that you don’t see in skate videos as much anymore.
Do  you think thatʼs just because of the way weʼre presented  media today or is it just a thing of the past?
I think for Rocco, itʼs what he wanted to make. I  think it works for other people in different ways. It comes down to the creatorʼs  eye and what theyʼre trying to communicate. Because skateboarding is not a  sport, itʼs a way of communicating. Itʼs a way of expressing yourself to others and  showing that to a community. Sometimes you want to communicate with a larger  basket of ideas tying it all together, and sometimes you just want to throw stuff  out and have more of an avant grade type of thing. Itʼs art. I think people can find themselves in skateboarding in a way that they usually  donʼt have an opportunity with in other activities. To be a part of a culture and  community that expresses itself on a less-linear “score-based” or “value-based”  structure. It gives people an ability to understand their human nature through this  dance and communication of skateboards. Itʼs cool, thereʼs no conformity if youʼre  just understanding yourself.
We have to talk about the concrete bowl in your backyard. How many different eras have you seen of your  house?
Probably seen fifteen roommates and seven editions of the bowl. The bowl is a  dream right now. The coping is as sauced as you can imagine.
How did you even hear about the bowl before you moved  in?
My friend Maurice and I were skating down the block and Fritz was drunk on the side of the street and was stoked we were fire-crackering a set of stairs. Then he  invited us to go hang out at his bowl, then we went on a trip together and he asked  me if I wanted to move in.
Whatʼs been your favorite outlet during quarantine?
During quarantine I got really into painting again, I get into painting about once  every two years. Watercolors, I try and maintain that. Getting into more into the  drawing side of it, in that I like the drawing side of it to develop my abilities on the  painting side of it. Playing blast beats on my drum set, got the double kick setup. Got my VHS camera rigged up with a wide angle lens, been ripping that guy. We  did a backyard edit for Skate Jawn and did all of the music in-house. We did a  music video for Hershguy. I was kind of blessed with a creative upbringing. I was brought up very musically,  my dad started playing music when I was born. He was into the avant grade jazz  scene as a beat poet through the ’70s. I went to an arts middle school and took ballet. And I got into video editing there, making stupid stuff with my friends. Itʼs a  skillset that makes my life more fulfilling. For two years I did ballet, one year I did  tap. I think I also took African Dance, but Iʼm clumsy. I was terrible at  sports, I canʼt get a ball in a hole to save my life. I was good at being a goalie,  because Iʼm good at throwing myself in front of things. I can figure out where a  thing is going to be and put my body in front of it. I think I had to trick myself to  learn how to be graceful on a skateboard. I donʼt think it came naturally to me. I donʼt think it comes naturally to anyone.
Are you kidding me? Have you seen kids these days?! Where do you see yourself with your relationship to  skating ten years from now?
Remaining involved in my community and skating cool stuff as much as I can.  Never really wanted anything more.

================================================================================

What’re the origins of the name Jersey Dave?
It all started when I was thirteen years old growing up in a town called Norwood, NJ. There weren’t too many people skating around there at the time, and one day I ended up meeting a few kids from right over the border in Rockland County, NY. At the time, Vinny Raffa was holding a lot of events and contests that I always had my mother drive me to. She’d drop me off in a parking lot behind a record store called Tapeville in Nanuet, NY where we’d all meet up. We ended up in this schoolyard with perfect blacktop banks where Vinny threw a little contest for all of the kids that came out. I ended up placing second or third in the contest and they didn’t know how to spell my last name, so they ended up writing down Jersey Dave. Being that I was the only kid from Jersey skating with all these New York state kids, it caught on and has stuck ever since!
What are some of the biggest difference you’ve noticed skating the city today versus when you first started?
When I first started skating the city not many people skated the outer boroughs, we just skated through Manhattan all day and were fully content with that. Now most of the day is spent driving from spot to spot outside of Manhattan. A lot of spots we used to skate are gone. We used to take the PATH train into the city, skate the benches outside of the World Trade Center, and random spots along the way to the Brooklyn Banks. You definitely wouldn’t see as many kids skating around, either.
Give me your top 3 Jersey skaters from 2000 vs 2015.
2000:
1.Darren Baskinger
2.Kevin Hayden
3.Joe Tookmanian
2015:
1.Josh Wilson
2.Richie Rizzo
3.Ron Deily
What’s one of your favorite stories from teaching in Jersey City, NJ?
First off, I’d like to thank Mark (Wetzel) for the opportunity. If he didn’t hook it up with that job, who knows if I’d be where I’m at with teaching today. One of my favorite stories took place while we were doing a project designing album cover art for CDs. One of my favorite students at the time had decided to do a 2pac album cover. He was obsessed with the song “Hit Em Up” and would sing it in class all the time. During art class I would always let the kids listen to music. On this particular day we were listening to Hot97 and they happened to be playing a 2pac memorial block. The student was super hyped and started singing and dancing. I was helping someone at my desk when the student walks up, grabs my water bottle, and pours it on the ground saying “this one’s for 2pac!”It was amazing, but I didn’t even know what to say. In case you were wondering, his 2pac album cover came out so sick!
Tell us about your love of skating in Jordans and other basketball footwear.
It all started when I saw Vinny Ponte skate those white Jordans in Zoo York Mixtape. As a kid I always wanted to skate in Jordans but could never afford them. Skate shoes suck these days. They make them too thin and nobody makes a good high top. I’m actually skating this Huf hiking boot at the moment that is real sick! I miss the original Ipath grasshopper.
Let’s wrap this up with a Fred Gall story.
I have a million but this one stands out for me, I hope I can do it justice. One day I met up with Fred and Rodent. They were working on an article and Fred had this one particular spot in mind. It was a wall to bank on top of a roof in a shopping center where he wanted to do the infamous noseblunt pull-in (old faithful/arab money). The parking lot was always packed with people and cars so Fred had never gotten the chance to try it. He climbed onto the roof and did the trick twice in a row while Rodent shot photos while standing on his car. People didn’t even realize Fred was skating a roof, they were just worried about the guy standing on top of his expensive car. Being that Fred had gotten a trick that he’d wanted to do for years, we decided to go back to his place to celebrate. While sitting on the couch drinking Heineken, Fred starts to freak out. Fred points to his girl’s cat, who is sitting on the back of the couch scratching at a photo of his chick and her niece. The photo had “Holy Communion” written on the bottom of the frame. As Fred freaks out, we watch as the cat starts to scratch away some of the letters, starting with the Y, followed by the L. As soon as it said “Ho Communion” the whole thing fell off the wall. Fred freaked out and said “nobody pick up the frame, I don’t want my chick to think that was me!”
Any shoutout?
Big thanks to my family and my girlfriend Julia, NJ Skateshop, Domestics Clothing, Bergen County Camera, Brian Kelley for the HUF boots, Dagget for shooting the photos, you for the interview, and anyone else who has been there for me throughout the years!

================================================================================

What’s up Adrian, where we at right now?
Man, we are kicking it over here at the FTC/ Gnarhunters collab art show. Buncha homies just doing what we do. Family united.
So what was it like growing up in Alaska trying to skateboard? Dope spots or all ice?
You know, we got our cool little 4-5 months of love, the rest of it is icy as fuck. Growing up there was great to be honest. At the time I was growing up it was real slow paced there. You know, not a lot of craziness to get into, I had great parents, I was blessed. I found skateboarding at the age of ten and I was set from then on.
Did you have a crew out in Alaska?
Oh yes, we had the crew for sure man. Micah Hollinger, Jerry Smyth, both these motherfuckers got covers. Micah had the cover of Big Brother, 180 nosegrind staples center L.A. Jerry Smyth, cover of Thrasher front crook at 3rd and Army on the police barrier thing. Known both those fools since the 5th grade, and you know, we definitely had crew besides that. We weren’t rowing boats, but we had crew, know what I’m saying?
You’ve put in over a decade of skating SF almost exclusively. What is it about this place?
Man, it’s just the access. Like, you’re accessible to whatever it is. Go out your doorstep, you’re good. I live in the Sunset but I could be downtown like it’s nothing. A twenty minute push and half of that you ain’t even pushing!
Are you bummed the library is so wack now?
I’m definitely bummed that the library has been, not so much taken, but definitely saran wrapped, you know what I mean? They got it behind the glass a little bit. We can skate it still, but we can’t get it like we want to get it. We could take some shit off but we might end up fucking it up. So I’m a little bummed, but at least we can still roll through there. And you know, skateboarders adapt so I can’t even get bummed anymore, I’m too old to be bummed.
What’s your favorite spot to skate
currently?
Honestly I don’t even have a favorite spot man. My favorite spot is being where I’m at, when I’m there. I don’t know what it is, but that’s where it’s at. I’m on some Buddhist type shit with that one.
You just had a part in SF State of Mind and your banger in Business as Usual. What’s next?
Supposedly there’s some other Think video coming out, I may have some shit in there. Honestly, I don’t know what’s next man, I’m on such a new little hype. I work a lot right now. Skateboarding isn’t supporting me at the level that I need it to support me at, so I can’t give it as much attention as I’d like to at this moment. But what I do know is, whatever you do see next is going to be me trying. Cause that’s what I do, I try like a motherfucker. I may not be one of the greatest, but I got one of the biggest tries, so I give a fuck.
What’s the best part about teaching kids how to skateboard?
Man, best part for me, on the selfish hype, is having a kid who really wants to learn and is down to fucking get licked one time, even though it hurts a little bit. You ain’t broken you know, it’s alright. Most kids are down with the idea, skateboarding. But then they get fucked up and it’s actually hard, and they gotta try, and it takes time. The kid that is willing to take all that, I love that.
Have braces ever fucked you up with skating? Like you ever bit your lip or anything?
Uhh…. Braces fuck you up. They don’t fuck up your skating, they just fuck you up.
Morning or night?
Both. Fuck that, I love it all. I need all the time I can get.
Aright so what happened with Grind King, what was that about?
Eyy much love to Grind King, off the top of everything. Pretty much I had a roommate out here, Jason Rodriguez. His good homie, this dude Kevin, came to visit us one time, then somehow he became the Grind King TM. He hit up Jason, who hit me up. They were one of the first fools to really hold me down, and pay me something cool, for some trucks at that. I was like whoa. I was able, you know what I mean? Able with that shit, so that was nice!
You seem like a religious dude,
do you feel your faith, or your belief in god, has helped get you to where you’re at today?
Of course man! And I don’t even really believe it’s religion man, I believe it’s relation. I believe it’s really getting down, and really just keeping it real. At the end of the day I can’t prove it to you, and you can’t prove it to me. But I can know it for me, and you can you know it for you. When you say religion, I say relation. Cause I’m here somehow and you’re here somehow and if you know, kudos, cause I can’t really fathom it. But I’m here, doing this, and I’m about to do that, you know what I’m saying?
That’s real. Alright shout it out, thank you, say whatever.
Yeah, so I’m gonna thank G-O-D to the most. Thank my family to the most, my brother got me on the board. And just all supporters and all the fools that believe in the homie. Not even believe, just like to see the homie, and encourage the homie. Thank you everybody and everything cause that’s what it is yo. I thank it all cause that’s what it takes.

================================================================================

Photos and Interview by Jonathan Becker
J- First off, congrats! You’re starting things off with a bang; Damn Am Louisville 2024.
P- I feel like it’s a big honor to have the contest here straight out of the gate. To get this here this quickly is awesome but, I also felt this crazy responsibility because I don’t want to blow it. We have been working on the park for over 10 months now and I was worried that maybe I couldn’t make it to opening day in time to even have this contest. Trying to get insurance, trying to get through all the permits and all that stuff, trying to get through the city permitting requirements was insane! I didn’t know what might come up until the day I actually received it, like boom here is the permit and you can open up. That was such a weight off the shoulders, I’m stoked it is over.
J- Can you tell me a little more about working with the city? Sounds like there was some push back.
P- Here is what happened. This space is 50 years old and there used to be industrial stuff here for the entire time. I went to the city and said, “I would like to open a skatepark in this building, what is that going to take?” They handed me a basic list of things I needed to do to change the use of the building from industrial to assembly, meaning people assemble here. They were like, well if people are going to be in this building we need to make sure it’s safe in all these ways; fire protection, bathroom codes, it has to have exits and blah blah blah. To get all of that done is so crazy and you have to keep hiring people to do all of these jobs because you need professionals. You can’t do it yourself. Costs were adding up, it was taking forever, you are hiring people that weren’t showing up and it is just a very difficult process. When it came down to building the course itself, that was easy. That’s an exaggeration… but I was working with great ramp builders. They built it in two months, we collaborated and that was fun. It was a creative process but we had to get through all that other nonsense first.
J- When did the idea to make this park come to you and what was the reasoning behind it?
P- I was involved in SPoT Tampa since day one. I wasn’t an owner or anything ever, I was just a skater there and then I have been involved with it ever since. I started working there and doing the events. Seeing that is inspiration for sure. I would go to Tampa and think, “This is the coolest place to be in the world!” and everyone comes out and has a blast. I think as a skater don’t we all want to have a skatepark to design what we think would be cool? So that was part of it but what finally sparked it was that there was an indoor skatepark in this city called Riot. It was here forever, it was rad, and during covid it shut down. I started immediately looking around to see what it would take to do an indoor. Once I started looking I saw this building really quickly afterwards and I was like, “There needs to be a skatepark in here.”
J- What is your favorite aspect about the park?
P- Well first I want to shout out SPot Tampa again, they built the formula for a great park to do events in. Also, I love the location, when you come here you will see it. Man, this place is cool. It is right next to a neighborhood but we are secluded because we are on the other side of a freeway and under a train track so it feels like we are on an island far from the city but we are seriously three minutes away from downtown. Also, the general layout inside is super cool with a great flow. Finally, I have been paying attention to skateparks for many years and seeing what kids like to skate on. Not just building a stair set, big hubba, and half pipe. What do kids actually skate on every day? I tried to take all those different things and include it in here. Somehow, I feel like it was dumb luck, just through some design choices it all flows together super well. It is not just back and forth, it flows in a triangle. I think the tree looks super rad too, shout out to my friends Erik Switzer and Matt McDole for spending so much time making that tree. People from now on might be like, “Oh, you are talking about the park with the tree in it.”
J- What do you think this park will do for the Louisville scene?
P- Again, when I go to Tampa, I see people coming from all over the world. They are so stoked to be there, they all want to contribute, and we have seen how Damn Am can change peoples lives right? I hope that this park can provide some of those opportunities for kids from this area and from anywhere. Just to expand that thing because we see a lot of contests happening out there right now all around the world like qualifying events for the olympics. I’m not going to lie, that stuff doesn’t look that fun. A lot of it is not cool at all but I want to hopefully contribute to what is seen as core skateboarding. Kids want to just show up and rip, they don’t want to be competing all the time and training. I think there will be more opportunities not just for skaters to work with rad people in the city. Hey I own a print shop and want to print your shirts or I want to shoot photos here or I want to learn video. Skateboarding isn’t just doing tricks, it’s the whole community of people that make all this stuff happen. I want that stuff to happen here, and it already is, so it’s very fun to be a part of.
J- For the people who aren’t familiar with the scene in Louisville, can you dive into it? What’s going down over here?
P- Every city has its own sick and unique scene. Louisville is no exception, there are pros from the 90’s that are from here like Thomas Hornung, Tony Cox, Chip Van Ham. OG Louisville pros. Then we had Cole Wilson and later we have John Clemmons and Cotie Robinson who are the current pros. I’m not acting like I am trying to create the scene, there is a great scene and I just want to give it more of a nucleus right here. There are a few good parks around but dude let’s be real, an outdoor park typically doesn’t provide that same type of vibe as a rad indoor. You go to the outdoor, nobody is playing rad music there unless you brought your own right? You try to get in the bathroom and it is locked or it’s smashed. There is no shade or anything to get to drink. If you break your board you have to leave. I grew up skating SPot Tampa and we would go there everyday and then head out street skating or whatever. I think indoor parks provide a super fun scene that you cannot get from an outdoor park.
J- What is in store for the future of Sprak?
P- The obvious basic ones are we will be doing programs like skate camps and classes and doing whatever, any good ideas. I would like to honestly create some weird community back here like build stuff for businesses. My example would be a coffee shop, bar, tattoo studio, print shop, music venue, airbnb for people coming from out of town to stay right here. I think that would be sick so people would be like, “Hey where are you going?” This is where you’re going! Hanging out all weekend and having a blast, that is the goal. I don’t want it to just be us skateboarding and leave.
J- How can people show support for Sprak and what you have going on here?
P- They can come here and skate, look us up and leave a 5 star review on google, they can buy Sprak gear. I plan on turning it into a brand of course. If you are a rich person, you can go online and be a “founding member” for Sprak and that is more like a donation in a way. Whatever though, literally anything. Call me up and tell me what you’re into and what you can do to contribute. Whether you can shoot photos, print some shirts, make skateboards, anything like that and I would be stoked. I want to work with as many people as possible just to do cool stuff and involve skaters.
J- Well it sounds like there is a lot of promise in Sprak and what you have going on. It is very cool to see you take this idea that you had and make it into a tangible reality. It is impressive and inspirational for not only skateboarders but people in Louisville to see someone successful like yourself doing what they want to do while implementing something into their community to build and grow. On that note is there anything you would like to add?
P- I would say this… I feel like I have had fifty ideas in my life where I was like “I should do this” and then I talk myself out of it. This one I couldn’t talk myself out of because I felt it was too important even though it was the biggest plunge. Like diving into the deep end, sink or swim. I know it just started but I know one hundred percent it was the right move so I would advise people to not talk yourself out of something you think you should do. No excuses, go for it! But as me in a year, I might say ehhhh… Thanks for the interest and thanks for being a part of it.

================================================================================

What do you have going on in your backyard
in Brooklyn?
Oh we got a sick ramp we’re building right now. Trying to make it into a bowl, but we’re lacking some funds at the moment. It’s like a cement ramp with pool coping. Pretty tight, pretty steep, not easy. I don’t know why, but we made it really hard.
Favorite trannies you’ve ever come across?
Probably skating the big O. That’s the first thing that comes to mind. That thing is incredible, it’s like a natural work of art. That and probably just any skateable pool.
Where did you go recently? You were in some rainforest?
Oh yeah I went to Costa Rica with my family. It was fucking sick.
You mentioned finding something to skate out there?
We get to this hotel and me and my dad are just hanging in the lobby. A dude working there sees my skateboard and mentioned something about a ramp around the area. He gives us a place where it might be, and me and my dad just go hunt it out. Then next thing you know we’re in this dudes backyard with like a big ass cement bowl.
What was up with the og RV trips?
Aw man those were awesome. We went on a bunch of RV trips. My mom got this RV a long time ago just to go on vacation with and she was just down to take me and my friends on skate trips. We went to Montreal and just all over the East Coast, it was sick. It was so awesome, I miss it.
You ever skate with the Creature dudes?
Yeah one time. I see Alex Horn every now and again in Brooklyn but the Creature and the Santa cruz dudes came through to Jersey and we took them to this pool, they were real stoked.
Tell me about the pool you had at your house?
That was a dream come true man. It was just super random. My parents were trying to move out of the place they were in and they just happened to stumble upon this old house in Summit, NJ and there was like a sick pool in the backyard. We didn’t know if it was skateable, and they were going to fill it in, cause they wanted to build something. It happened to be like the most perfect pool ever. For a good three months everybody came and skated and had the best time. It was definitely something to remember.
Tell me some of the people who came
through.
Off the top of my head one of the funniest people to come through was Patrick Melcher, cause he was like spray painting mustaches and dicks all over my house. Because they were tearing down the house. One of the coolest people to come through that I enjoyed talking to was Matt Rodriguez. He’s just a really all around great guy.
Have you heard any new conspiracies lately?
Yeah I guess, like not really a conspiracy but I found out how maraschino cherries are made. It’s pretty fucked up. They take a bunch of just regular old cherries and soak them in bleach for like 3 weeks. Then after that they soak them in a mixture of red number 40 and high fructose corn syrup for like 2 weeks. And red number 40 is like crushed up beetles and shit, it’s mad gross. So next time you’re at the bar take a look at what you’re about to eat.
Tell me about the last time you went to evolve fest?
Aw man, words can’t really describe the experiences I’ve had there. Just all around great vibes, it was a great time.
Are you a vegetarian?
Yeah I would say so. I haven’t eaten meat of any sorts in a while.
How long?
Probably a couple months. I think I started back in March. I watched this documentary called
Forks Over Knives
, and I don’t know, it kind of just changed the way I wanted to eat.
Trying to go raw vegan?
Probably not. I’ll leave that to… Jordan. But you never know what the future holds. Jordan’s the healthiest person I know, and it’s because of the way he eats no doubt.
Why do you do Yoga?
I do yoga because it just calms me and centers me and makes skating so much more fun. I don’t know, it loosens your body up. For me it just really makes me happy. Like I’ll do it in the mornings and at night, and it just sets my day off right.
What would be your dream pet to have?
Maybe like a stoner sloth. Sloths just kind of do their thing, they’re vegetarians like I am and they’re all stoned out. They just hang out. Seems like a cool pet to have.
Favorite thing about NYC skating?
You can skate anywhere, any time… most of the time. Actually I take that back. You can just skate at any hour of the night. The city is always alive. And probably just the people, there are so many homies that skate.
Favorite natural high?
Probably meditating, I’ve never gotten higher off anything else than meditating.
Where do you want to be when you’re old?
I don’t know, I want to be happy. Just content in whatever I’m doing. I can’t really say where I’ll be or what I’ll be doing, but I know that I want to be happy.
What would your dream skatepark be like?
First off, all my friends would be there. There’d be a sick ass restaurant right next to the skate park that serves skaters and there’s only hot babes working there. There’ll be a snake run, two different kinds of bowls, and then just a lot of fun shit. And it’s right next to a river.
What are your plans for the summer?
Just enjoy relaxation, time with my friends, try to take as many trips as I can, and just enjoy the time away from school. It’ll be my last summer I guess, cause next year I graduate and then my whole life is a summer.
What’s you’re favorite thing to skate in Jersey?
Right now it’s definitely Ann Van skate park in Hillsborough. The homies been holding it down building shit and it’s getting better and better every time I go. It’s so fun.
What’s you’re favorite place to skate in NY?
Probably my backyard right now, It’s right outside my door and it’s super fun. Me and my roommates Max and Patrick skate it a lot. Anybody who’s down to shred, come by.
What was the best vacation you’ve ever been on?
Best vacation I went on was the S.F. trip minus the plane ride back. S.F. is one of the sickest places I’ve ever been, skate-wise, culture-wise, it was awesome. We were staying in a hostel. That was probably the most fun trip I’ve ever been on.
Ever skate a big contest?
Tampa AM. I went this year and the first day I got there, first day of practice, I tore my groin and my hamstring, and I couldn’t skate. I couldn’t even walk. Which was a bummer. But looking back on it, it was probably one of the best things to happen to me at the time. I really got to just chill with my dad and spend some time with him. It was cool, I just kinda chilled for four months and now I’m skating again.
If you could give a message to the next generation what would it be?
To all the young bulls about to come up.
Just be exactly where you are. Don’t think too far ahead or far back, just enjoy where you’re at right now cause this moment is going to disappear just like the next. So enjoy what’s around you. Try to find the things that make you happy. Be yourself to every extent of what that is. Don’t get caught up in the mix.

================================================================================

How was the Yankees game?
It was soul. We got real good tickets from Johnny and Andrew’s uncle. haven’t been to one in a few years so it was real cool.
How long have you lived in NYC?
I’ve been living in Brooklyn for a little over 5 years now. Came here from Long Island to go to Pratt.
What’s yr favorite thing about Philly?
It was 1403 but since that’s done now i’ll have to say it’s the overall crew that we’re with when we’re down there. always a good time and always some fun little nug skate spot.
Least favorite thing about NYC?
Tickets for skating are the worst. I gotta go to court tomorrow morning for “blocking pedestrian traffic” (skating on the sidewalk).
Yea thats burnt how many tickets have you gotten in the city?
I don’t know, I feel like I get one every month. probably like 15. most of them get dropped. But some you gotta go in for. Always a bummer though.
”¨How long you been taking photos?
I’ve been taking photos since I was 15 but started taking it more seriously when i was like 18. My mom was a photographer in France so she always encourages me to keep shooting which is cool.
You French?
Oui oui French Moroccan.
You film?
I have used a video camera but I would never say I film. Trying to get into it though.
What’s Sundays?
Sundays is a zine i started focused on showing new art work, skateboarding, and music. It’s a 30 x 22 piece of newspaper. One side is a poster and the other side is full of submitted artwork from people all over.
What’s the worst job you ever worked?
I have a mini van so I do moving jobs. Dylan and I last summer on like 95 degree day had to move an entire apartment. A 5th floor walk up to a 4th floor walk up. Longest day of my life. I’d rather not have a lot than work shitty jobs so i don’t really do them.
”¨You work for Richard Kern right?
Ya I’m his assistant a bunch of the time.
How’d you get into that?
Just emailed him one day. I had seen his Vbs show and I was like this dude is awesome. I didn’t expect a response but he responded and had me come in to meet him. Sure enough a few weeks later I was working for him.
You get to see topless chicks at work?
Ya if I’m not working on a shoot with him I’ll be organizing photos or archiving work so either way it’s nude girls for a majority of the time.
”¨Whats yr favorite smut mag?
Skate Jawn or Spunk.
Whats yr favorite rolling paper?
Couldn’t tell ya.
How much do you like Star Wars?
Haha I love star wars. I don’t care what people think. I think it’s cool. My 8th grade quote for the yearbook was “Do or do not, there is no try.” – Yoda.
Favorite NYC park?
LES just opened and it’s soooooo good.
2nd?
Astoria is cool.
Grimiest shit you’ve seen in the subway?
Ended up in an empty car with a dude that pissed and shat himself. Should’ve realized that since no one else was in there.
Ever been in a riot?
Not really I felt like I was once though. In Philly we did this thing where we built a 24 ft viking ship and paraded it around. at the end everyone tore the thing apart and I was inside getting my camera equipment out of it. 50 people bombarded the thing and destroyed it and the mast came down and wacked me in the face. It was a wild experience.
What bars you go to?
Lucky dog is a good one. Dogs are allowed and it’s got a nice backyard. Vanessa’s dumplings isn’t a bar but it has 2 dollar beers and dollar dumplings so i’ll say that too.
If you could go on skate trip tomorrow with some homies, anywhere, where’d you go?
It’s cliche but Barcelona. Just seems amazing and there’s beaches and pretty women.
Thanks/shout outs
Shout out to Dylan, Johnny, Andrew, Paul, Max, Conehead, and riot Chris. The usual crew that keeps me motivated to keep skating.

================================================================================

Interview by Fernando Covarubias
Photos by Dominick Westbury, Danny Klein, Frank Verges
Where are you from?
Born in Chicago and moved to the suburbs. That’s where I started skating. Its about an hour outside of the city. A town or lay down!
FC: How’s Chicago?
CJ: It’s great and its on its way to the recognition it deserves. I’m hyped to be a part of it.
When was the first time we met?
Well I met Bonesaw earlier that winter 2016 in SF and the pieces just kinda came together. 2016 Chicago summer you all came out and skated.
Was I hounding you to smoke a roy?
Hahaha…Yeah?
What’s up with Danny’s?
It’s permanently closed now but that was our home base for so many years. It was an old neighborhood bar in Chicago but it used to be a trucker bar. And over time it turned into our spot. I wish it was still around.
Europe, Mexico, Medellin. Favorite trip we’ve been on together? And why?
Colombia in general was my favorite out of the 3. It was a different crew than the traditional Snack trips. It was my first time being on a trip with a new filmer and it was motivating to get out there daily and check out Medellin.
What’s in store for 2023?
I want to get another trip back to Colombia with the Snack bois and finish the vid we started out there back in 2022. Also just holding it down in Chicago and being part of the scene out here. Plus its close to family and homies
Any last words?
”Heard you’re in town?”

================================================================================

So where you from and where you at?
From Orlando, Florida. Currently in Bert’s new van heading north on 95.
Where you heading?
Daytona, St Augustine, and Jacksonville for the weekend. Trying to get some last clips for a Florida edit we’re working on.
Nice, you ain’t scared of corona down in Florida?
I’m drinking one in the van right now.
Well played. So speaking of corona, when did you get back from China?
Maybe I brought it back! Naw I got back in the beginning of January. Florida is a solid place to quarantine, things are somewhat mellow here. I actually read an article about corona before I left and didn’t think too much of it. It was so early and they described it affecting weak immune systems.
Where were you exactly, and what were you doing out there?
I was in Nanjing an hour and a half train ride from Shanghai. I got hit up by Paul Zitzer about a wild opportunity working with the Chinese Olympic Skateboarding team for three months. On account I’d never been anywhere in Asia I went for it.
Do you speak Mandarin or anything? Was it difficult teaching skateboarding in such a foreign environment?
They actually gave me a translator that was by my side six days a week. I was eager to learn, I was the only foreigner with a little notebook writing down every word and phrase I could. I’d write everything in English then Mandarin and then the pronunciation to help me remember. The five different tones are tricky. Teaching skating with a translator that doesn’t skate was difficult at times but we made it work. I’d help him with English slang and he’d help me with my Mandarin. But a lot of times I would just literally skate with them.
How were they treating Olympic skateboarding, they taking it seriously?
Just like everything else there, pretty serious. We had access to four private parks, two indoor and two outdoor. Six days a week skating 8:30 am – 5:30 pm. Physical trainers stretching and warm ups and doctors doing therapy, recuperating. Skating being in the Olympics, China wants a piece.
Think these kids got a shot? Any crazy rippers?
I mean everyone in the entire program had only been skating for two years. But a couple of them were on the national team already and skating in qualifying contests and traveling. Most of the boys have a better shot for 2024 but some of the girls on the other hand were insane. One skates in street league and hits big rails and there are two bowl girls that look like they’ve been at it for ten years.
Wild. So do you get to attend the Tokyo Olympics with the team or anything?
I would’ve for sure if I stayed with them. After the three months they offered me a year long contract and raise but I got my experience and thankfully I did leave right before the corona shit hit the fan. Not really bummed since I’m more of a skateboarder than a skate coach. I bounced because of a lot of reasons. I had only planned to do the three months just to get the experience in China and six days a week teaching skating got pretty buck.
Very true. Anything weird/sketchy happen while you were out there with the government?
Nothing too sketchy happened, everything was kinda lined up for me. I made some friends quick that took me around, and helped make sense of everything. But a weird one is their social shaming system. In some parts of the city there was big TV screens that put people on blast for things like jay walking. They have an insane facial recognition system and when they put your picture up it shows your info and lowers your social score and lets the whole neighborhood know you don’t abide by the rules. It makes it harder for you to open a business or buy property. The control on the internet is wild too. I had to get a VPN to use my email, instagram, and internet in general. They have their own apps and don’t have access to world news. It was funny how often I would bring up topics with the translators that they had never even heard of, like weed, or brown rice.
Brown rice!? You find any weed out there?
No joke my translator said brown rice wasn’t rice, it’s something people made up to compare to rice. He said if it’s not white and been through the machine, it’s to only be fed to animals. And literally knew nothing about marijuana or hemp. It doesn’t exist there anymore apparently. People hadn’t seen it in years and were too afraid to get caught with it in their systems to try and find it. Homies would say if you texted about it on WeChat they come straight to your house and drug test you.
So what’s next for a former Chinese Olympic skate coach in Florida?
Honestly if it wasn’t for this virus I’d be driving back to Long Beach right now. I left for China on the tail end of finishing a video part with Dave Hoang that we’ve been working on for over two years for our shop Plus. No Hotels is also getting ready to drop a full length Florida edit too.

================================================================================

Let’s start with the beginning. What was it like growing up in Milford, Ohio?
I didn’t move there until I was a teenager.I grew up in College Hill, closer to Disc World, closer to the inner city. But I started skating in College Hill.
And that was like ’88?
Yeah, I was eight or nine. I got in on one launch ramp session while those days were still going. My brother’s friend had a launch ramp and it was classic, like 20 dudes waiting to do their one launch ramp trick. So I caught the tail end of that era. And then when I got my own board and was skating a decent amount, all the other dudes that had quit had old launch ramps that we would put on our boards and push back to the house.
When did you end up going to Disc World?
That was our shop. I went there to get some wheels for my older brother before I skated. So I rode my bike over there and there was a Bill Danforth demo happening. And I got out of his way. He’s like, “Get the fuck outta my way kid!”
How old were you when you moved to Milford?
13. I had a group of friends that I skated with in College Hill. Milford is, you know, mega-suburbed out. The best spot was a K-Mart with a tall curb manual pad. But I had to skate up the side of a four-lane highway to get to it. And this is the early ’90s, so I had huge pants and small wheels pushing a half hour skate to the one good spot.
Where did Joe Castrucci come from?
The westside of Cincinnati. We would skate spots around Disc World. Even Gary Collins was around that time. I was like 15, maybe a little older. I would catch the bus downtown and skate around solo and run into people.
What was the first video you were in?
“Solid.” It was a bunch of guys that went to Disc World and just got small runs of boards. They had a random woodshed, it was hard to do that back then.
And that was Castrucci’s first video?
He didn’t even make the first one. This guy Dave Ackels, he does that Absorb company now. He filmed the first video. We drove to Dayton a bunch, most of it was filmed up there. It was strange, for some reason at that time Dayton had all the spots. It was a weird thing. For the second video, Castrucci had got a nice three chip camera and he started filming. After that video came out, and all those graphics, he got hired by Alien Workshop like a year later. When he got that job, Solid got absorbed by this company Nation, under Strength Magazine. Remember Strength? Strength was owned by this guy that was a snowboarder that came from money. When he got out of school, he started an “extreme” magazine. And he hired a bunch of skaters that all went to DAAP (a design school in Cincinnati). The offices were in Norwood. So Nation was out of there. They also did some Wu-Tang boards out of there too.
Like a collaboration?
Nah, I think it was just like a black board with the Wu-Tang symbol in yellow.
So did Castrucci hand it off completely?
Yeah, I think Tony Hietz was running Nation. And he was like, “all the people that were on Solid can ride for Nation.” They had Jason Rothmeyer and they had James Riff. Remember the Rifty Fifty? You ever heard that term?
Never heard of it.
It’s when you grind a handrail and take it to a ledge.
So many people came out of the that group…When did Disc World close?
When Anonymous opened. It was in Clifton, and they were making the videos. It was like a little golden era of Cincinnati skateboarding.
And what is “The Block” for the people that don’t know?
It’s just a block. The block that the shop was on in Clifton, Ohio. It’s just fucking flat ground on a street in the college town of Cincinnati. It’s smooth and slightly downhill. And down the street from that, my friend’s parents bought a house and rented it to all his friends that were skaters. And we built a ramp in the backyard.
The famous mini ramp?
Yeah. So you would hang out at the shop, skate flat ground, and then go skate the ramp, or “the beach house” as we used to call it.
Who was in the infamous doubles photo on that ramp?
Was it Kokomo and Gary? Yeah, for sure. Because they were all right there. Most of the dudes dropped out of college, pitbulls had torn up the yard, there was no grass, just mud and dirt. And his dad was the sheriff of Clermont County. They couldn’t own a place like that. So they sold the house and kicked everyone out. And a few months later, the skate shop moved out to the suburbs. It was like, “are we still gonna hang out in this area?” And it turned out we did. It lasted, it became The Block.
When did Al Davis start coming around?
He was around during the Anonymous and Block days. He was pretty young and already super good. And doing everything pretty easy, that’s why Ned was calling him “Al Butters.” Just super consistent and doing everything.
Gary Collins told me to ask you about “Gentlemen’s Hour.”
(reminiscently) Gentlemen’s Hour. The hour before the shop closed was Gentlemen’s Hour and everyone had beers. They almost damn near did have to move the skate shop because of all the skaters hanging out. Parents would come in there with their kid and Ned, Gary Kokomo, and a bunch of dudes heckling a skate video, with tall cans in paper bags. We shot ourselves in the foot by hanging out there too much.
And what was Cody’s Cafe?
They had jazz nights that would go on. And maybe a rap night too. It was a couple blocks from the skate shop and so that was usually our spot to drink heavily after skating. And then it became a thing to go bomb hills after going there cause we were drunk enough.
When did you move to SF?
Late 2003, with my girlfriend at the time. Drove a minivan across the country. Had it decked out and slept in it as we drove across. And even when we got to SF, we lived in it for a couple weeks till we got a place. Then we got a spot, and soon after she was over it and went back to Ohio. I was like, “fuck, I’m not leaving.” So I ended up staying in my friend’s hallway. Trevor Prescott who made all the Seasons videos. He hooked me up and let me stay on a yoga mat in his hallway for a couple months.
Did you find work or a place?
Couldn’t even get a dishwashing job while I was out there. It was like I was unemployable. So I got an EBT card and I was getting Rasa Libre boards cause Nate Jones was living out there. It was right when Rasa Libre just started so I was getting friend flow. I thought I was more hooked up with it, but it turns out I was really friend flow. So I’d go to Deluxe and get a bunch of boards to sell, use the EBT card, and use skate every day.
What was your first job in NY?
I worked at Abercrombie and Fitch overnight stocking clothes, because I was going to get that job in San Francisco. It was a job that a bunch of people worked out there. It was an easy skate job you could get. They would hire anybody. You would work overnight. You could say “fuck it” and not go in one night and not get fired. And it paid okay. So I went in with four or five of my friends, we all lived in Dobbin. A week later, they called my friend James, I think he was the only one with a cell phone. They called him and told him he got a job. He asked if his friends got hired and they said, “yeah, they got hired too.”
So you all worked together?
We’d just go in there and fold clothes all night. It was like you’d be out skating all day, then you’d go in at 9 or 10. When I moved here, there was this website called opener.com. So we would have a list of all of them. It’d be art shows or bars with little events promoting something. And there were tons of them. So it’d be like, go to work? Or go drinking for free all night? So we’d end up working like twice a week, the bare minimum to eat.
But you live an adult life now right?
I guess, but it took a while. Actually, I don’t know. Is this an adult life I live? We’re talking shit at noon on a Tuesday.
Max White: It’s Wednesday.
I guess I’m not living and adult life yet. I had a couple stints of adult life, but I guess it didn’t sit well with me. I clawed my way out of it. Moved back into Dobbin.
Maybe in ten more years?
That’s what I keep telling myself, “maybe in ten more years.” Those ten years go by and I’m still not ready. Actually, I’ve come to terms with it, this is it. I hope to die in that motherfucker (Dobbin Block Lofts).
“Dave Caddo, 87-years-old, oldest Dobbin resident.”
I have a feeling Jerry (Mraz) will still live there. We can meet back up, do the same interview. “Where are they now?” Nothing has changed, same, same, same.
Does Dobbin keep you young? What keeps you going?
I don’t like doing anything else. Skating is the thing I’m most into. I’ve been losing my mind with this back injury. Shouldn’t I be into other shit? I’ve tried.
Alright, that’s probably a good place to wrap it up.
Yeah, probably enough rambling.

================================================================================

What have you been up to today?
Today I went to a doctor’s appointment because my knee has been killing me for months. He basically said I have to get some arch supports. What I gathered from that appointment is I’m old and you just break down.
C’est la vie
as the French say. I’m also writing this in a hospital waiting room to visit a friend. Piece of advice, tell your people that you love them everyday and let go of all bullshit grudges and forgive people. We only have a certain amount of time, and that time is precious. Don’t waste it.
Did the response to the BA video surprise you?
I was a bit surprised by the response from the BA piece. It’s not everyday that you get to make something that impacts someone’s life in a positive way. The best part about it was to see everyone in skateboarding rally behind him and say ‘we love you and we don’t care.’ Jim Thiebaud has always said that when skateboarders come together there is nothing we can’t do. I believe that fully, and it’s great to see where BA is today and I’m happy he is being his true self. It’s a special thing.
How did you start taking skate photos?
I started taking skate photos because it was the one thing I was most interested in. Way back when I was a kid, I remember always reading the names on the sides of photos in skate mags. And I thought how cool it was that these guys rolled around with skaters and shot photos. I loved the different angles and the fisheye, and how rad skateboarding looked. Nothing is harder to shoot than skateboarding. If you can shoot skating you have a leg up on a lot of people.
How much do you travel these days? How many months of the year are you gone?
I pretty much travel every month, I’m between LA and my hometown of NYC. I have different work in both places. I love NYC and LA equally. People try and compare them, but you can’t. It’s literally apples and oranges. I spend most of my time in LA because I have a daughter and she’s here, but my friends and family are still in NYC. My parents still live in Brooklyn in the same house they brought me home to 46 years ago. I’ve also been going on a few Alltimers trips here and there. I love those guys and what they’re doing. Zered has been a close friend since we met when he was 16. We’ll see how the rest of the year shakes out though. Why, anyone wanna go in on a trip? I’m in!
How is studio photography different than in the streets?
Studio photography is different as in everything is controlled, you don’t get kicked out and you’re not at the bottom of some steps laying in dirt and piss while your friend throws their skateboard at you. Also, with portraits, you don’t have the environment around you to add to the feel of the photo. In studio you have to make your subject give a feeling to the camera. It’s more of an intimate setting and it’s you and your subject, so getting some truth can be trickier. I like the studio setting because I’ve spent so much time in the streets. It’s a rad change of pace.
Do you get to travel or go to cool events working for non-skate companies?
I’ve gone to a few cool places shooting for some non-skate stuff. Nothing very exotic yet, but time will tell where and when that goes down. I’ve been to a few sections of the country that I had never been to which was cool. I went up to Northern California about an hour and a half north of SF called Timber Cove. Really nice rocky coastlines and beautiful state parks. Far from my normal city dwelling experience that I love. It was really great.
Can you tell me anything about filming
Chomp on This
?
Filming
Chomp on This
was a lot of fun. Granted, most of my footage is acting like a huge jackass, almost fighting people and choking one of my close friends (sorry Todd!) The guy in the park put his hands up to me like he was gonna hit hit me, if he didn’t do that I don’t think it would have escalated. Being older now, as that was over 20 years ago, you don’t need to get in any physical altercation with anyone. It’s gonna end bad no matter what.
You worked on a music video recently, was that a first?
I did just do a music video, and it was my third. They’re fun to make because musicians, like any artist, enjoy thinking outside the box and making something rad. I really love to collaborate with people so music videos are perfect for that.
You have worked with RB a lot, why do you like working with him?
I’ve been working with RB since the ’90s. He’s one of my best friends and I’ve been to his parents’ house in Houston where they’d make me sing Filipino songs to them and their family! I know a few Filipino songs. I used to work with a guy in a pet store who taught them to me. Yeah, a pet store! RB is my first for any film stuff I’m working on, he’s great at what he does, we have a conversation of what I’m looking for, and he puts his twist on it and it always comes out amazing. Besides, can you tell me something better than working with your best friends?
First photo in a magazine?
My first photo in a mag was probably around ’94/’95 of Kyle James doing a switch tailslide on the bench at the South St. Seaport. They gave me $60 for it, I called up the mag and asked if it was a mistake to pay me all that money. Seeing that photo for the first time was the moment in my life I knew I was on the right path.
When did you first meet Daewon?
I officially met Daewon in the early 2000’s through Tim Gavin. We got along instantly and the things I’ve seen him do are mind blowing. There was so many times I said let’s shoot a trick he was doing and he said it was weak! I would talk to Dae about the earlier days in all those World videos, and during all the picnic table stacking days. I always knew we’d get along, cause when he had that fresh fade, those acid washed jeans, and white leather sneakers. I loved how guido he looked!
Longest skate trip?
My longest skate trip would be a Europe trip I took. I was out there for about five weeks. Going from one trip to another. Those were great days. Just go skate, shoot photos, and see what happens. Some of the best days of my life.
Last time you focused a flash?
The last time I focused a flash would have to be around 2004-’05 in Australia. I have low tolerance for frustration, but when my kid came along I mellowed out.
You’ve never smoked weed?
I never smoked weed, or drank in my life. I don’t judge anyone who does and a lot of my friends do. So do your thing! It’s just not for me.
Hardest skater to meet up with?
Every skater can be hard to link up with, but the hardest? I’m not sure. Everyone has their moments when they don’t wanna shoot. As easy as it could be to get up with someone one day, it could be the hardest the next. Maybe Guy? He never answers his texts or phone. But when he’s on it, it would be non-stop just go!
Any new photogs you’ve seen that you’re hyped on?
I really like Sam Mueller a lot. I think he’s my favorite newer photographer out now. I think that kid Zander in NYC is great too. Also that kid from Florida that shoots for DC is really good. But my favs are Mike Blabac, Gabe Morford, Atiba, Ben Colen, and Mike O’Meally. Also non-skate would be Joe Pug, and I can go on but I won’t.

================================================================================

Photos and interview by Dharam Khalsa
Yo, whats up Reese, what are you currently up to these days?
Been trying to skate and swim through this Texas summer. I also work at No Comply skateshop here in Austin.
Give us a little back story on where you grew up and where you live now.
I was born in Idaho Falls, Idaho and moved to Waco, Texas when I was 10. Then moved to Austin a couple years after high school.
What’s a typical day look like for you here in Austin?
Either skate before or after work at house park or get out in the Roger van with the dawgs. Also go swimming at Barton Springs a lot.
Are you filming for anything right now?
I’ve just been trying to stack up and put out a part, hopefully next year.
How long have you been skateboarding? Do you remember your first setup?
Since I was around nine. Hot wheels! Then I got a 5-0 skateshop complete.
What’s your current setup?
Roger 8.3, Venture 5.8 titanium, OJ 53mm 101 elites.
Who do you mainly skate with nowadays?
Pretty random when we go skate street but shout out house park locs.
I noticed you were traveling a bit over the summer, where did you go?
I got to go to Copenhagen and Berlin which was insane, and so many skaters in one place. All the Rogers went off and got some amazing footy out there. I also went out to SF for a week a little after that and got to see the “Right Here For Pablo” premiere. That shit got me sooooo hyped. I was staying with Marshall Manuel and he wasn’t sure if we were gonna make it in the first showing cause of the list, and the line. Going in got crazy. Fuckin’ Dela recognized me in the line and came up and finessed me in the first showing after the lady said I wasn’t on. I had ate some mushrooms and was just so grateful I was in there, it was the sickest shit!
Wow, Pablo up there looking out for all the G’s. Good lookin out Dela! Much love Pablo, thank you from all of us. Speaking of influences. Who are some of your biggest influences?
Mark Gonzales and John Cardiel ever since I was young.
Where haven’t you been to that you’re trying to get to?
Mexico!
Any creative outlets other than skating?
I draw randomly and paint rarely but I wish I did more.
Favorite conspiracy theory?
The government is the real conspiracy theory, but it’s my least favorite.
Who is the silliest goose on Roger?
That’s gonna be a solid tie between Cosmo and Bango (Brian Goterman).
Best trip, acid or mushrooms?
Miami with all the Rogers, and Joel Meinholz showing us around after I had a couple margaritas, and some mushrooms, which was just a perfect combination to skate all night. Joel just had endlesss ideas of spots to go to. It was a great harvest.
How many stairs can you ollie?
Most I ever did was 14.
Favorite weed strain?
Poon tang pie.
How do we contribute to the reduction of waste in our environment?
I don’t ride bikes but everyone says Reese cycle.
When is Garrett going pro?
Sheesh wouldn’t we like too know!
How do you feel about minced garlic? Okay or no way?
What other way is there?

================================================================================

Cool, Calm, & Collected Sean Evans is one of those kinds of dudes that’s easy to be jealous of because they make everything look so easy.  But don’t let the soft spoken trick fool you, he’s just harnessing a fierce focus. Sean skates with explosive power and laser precision on all types of terrain, bringing finesse and flavor not matched by many while staying more humble than most. Sean showed up seemingly out of nowhere a few years back, but he fell right in with the mix and has been steadily stacking for a few different Boston based projects coming early 2021.  Remember the name now, Sean’s time is coming real soon. -Armin
When and how did you find skating?
My mom would give us Easter presents, she’s a Christian lady, and when I was like 6 or 7 I woke up and there was a skateboard for me on the couch.  I didn’t ask for it or anything it was just there!  I would just buttbomb down it and eat shit so many times, it was great. I started really trying to ride it when I was like eight or so.
How’d you end up in Boston from North Carolina?
My girl got an internship and I thought it would be cool here so I just came with her in May 2018.  I had a friend from NC that lived here, and I knew that Eggs was here but didn’t really know anything else about it, but it worked out.
Biggest differences between Boston and North Carolina
First you don’t need a car here which I like,  I can just walk out my house and go skate.  Back home you definitely need a car all the spots are spread out.  But there’s not really any rails here.
Can you confirm or deny any stereotypes about Boston?
People were telling me when I first moved here, and something I’ve always heard before that is that the people are pretty mean up here, maybe a little moody, but that wasn’t the case at all.  It’s been sick, I love it!
You were getting Hopps boards for a bit, how did you switch up to the Habitat program?
Joe just randomly DM’d me.  It was really tough because I love Jahmal’s skating and all the Hopps stuff, but I also grew up on Habitat videos.  I just wanted to see that Habitat opportunity through and see where I can go with it looking towards the future.
When you get in the Habitat what are you playing when they pass you the guitar?
I do not know how to play guitar, when they pass it I guess I’ll try to strum it or some shit, but guess I gotta learn now haha.
Any shitty Tattoos?
Yeah I got some on my thighs, just stick and pokes not actual tattoos though.  The first one I did myself, it’s like a dumb little sock, it hurt like hell. Just drunk one night, and they had the kit so fuck it ya know?  And then another one with an eyelash, but that one’s not so bad.  And then a raincloud and then a light bulb. Stupid shit.  But I might get a real one one day.
First post Covid big trip, where you going?
I’ve been thinking about this one a lot!  We’re going to Madrid, those plazas look amazing! Orchard trip let’s do this!
Name three North Carolina Legends
.
Kenny Hughes, Justin Brock, Bob Reynolds
What’s on your plate at the BBQ?
Mac & Cheese obviously. Collard greens, potatoes, I don’t really eat meat too much any more.
You’re living in a post apocalyptic world, and you have shelter and steady food supply covered.  You get items to get you through it all and stay sane.  Pick 1 item each – album, video, personal item, luxury item.
Group Home –
Living Proof
Alien Workshop –
Mindfield
Personal item – Diabetes medicine
Luxury item – gold cross pendant from my mom.
Shoutouts?
Mary for everything she does, wouldn’t be here without her in the first place.  My parents of course.  The Orchard crew, Ben, Myles, Dutchie, Brian, Armin, Lee, all y’all.  Benny and all the Eggs homies, Joe at Habitat, Tufty and Nike SB, Bram, Spitfire, and Venture. Shout out to Raleigh and I’ve gotta shout out all of Boston, I love it here.

================================================================================

What’s up?
Jerkin my dick mane, playing with my ferret and watching
Lost
.
What’s yr ferret’s name?
Penelope.
I heard those things smell terrible.
They do.
Age/sex/location?
Me or my ferret? 21/M/Charlotte.
Spliff or blunt?
Solo spliffs and buddy blunts.
What do you do besides skate?
I’ve been painting for as long as I can remember. I work at Cheap Joe’s Art Stuff in Charlotte and I’ve been doing a lot of screen printing at my apartment lately. I have an apartment with my lovely girlfriend (bonus points) and our dog and ferret. And beer, lots of beer.
What’s your secret?
I’m still trying to figure that out. I think I forgot it or something.
Who are some of yr favorite skaters from around yr way?
This dude Gilbert used to kill it. Dude was in and out of his parents house, he was an original Cave Boy. Sickest style ever… I think there may still be a few old montages with him in it, but for the most part he’s a myth. He was a heroin addict for a couple years and fell into a hole and was stealing shit. It was pretty pathetic. Last I heard he moved to DC area and straightened himself out. Nowadays it’s mostly just all the homies. I love seeing other people skate, doesn’t matter who. Everyone has they’re own opinions on skateboarding
If you could live and skate in any decade which would you chose?
Late ’80s early ’90s in NYC, when NYC was at its grimiest. But not because of skateboarding.
Then why?
Culture I guess I usually think art oriented and I make skateboarding fit. It’s like some baggage or something except totally welcomed not like cher girl’s kid or something.
Who are some of your favorite artists?
Ray Johnson, David Matheson, Damien Hirst, Chalkboard… There’s this kid named Aaron in Charlotte, everyone around sheep calls him “Crash” just because of the way he skates. Dude is an amazing artist. I love conceptual art too and shit but I could never do anything like that. I’m not interesting enough.
Your time will come.
We can only hope.
Have you ever been robbed?
No, I think I’m too big to get robbed, plus the beard makes dudes feel like they got a small dick or something, so they get scurred and run.
What’s the maddest your parents have ever been at you?
I don’t really know… My sister is a dancer and has made quite the career out of Broadway musicals… When I was little my parents made me take dance lessons (mainly because male dancers go to college for free) and when I was like 12 I finally pitched a fit big enough to make my parents withdraw me from dance classes. I told them I’d rather skate and they were suuuuuper bummed on it. They always told me I needed a back up… But that’s why I like painting shit. They never really bought me skateboard shit after that, I mostly shredded hand me downs from my class mates
What’d you think of high school?
I went to two different high schools. The first one was pretty tight, it was in Charlotte and I still skate with some of the homies that I went to school with. The second one was after my parents moved to the burbs and I had to go to school with rich kids.
Ever been in a fight?
WELL a few years back I used to skate with a bunch of homies downtown every night. I’d get off work at like 10:30 (from Panera) and get a beer on the way downtown, drink in a random parking lot, and then go skate with the homies. They started rebuilding a bunch of buildings downtown… I don’t know why but they tore down skyscrapers and rebuilt them and hired security guards… One day we were skating (beerless) and we rolled up to this spot and started skating. Some dude was pissed as shit and ran out at my friend Cory, he kind of dodged him and the dude turns and looks at me. I started laughing because dude looked like a strawberry with a shitty toupee. He walked at me and picked my board up and threw it into traffic. As soon as he came back to where I was, I open hand smacked the shit out of him, Then yelled some threats and spit in his face and left. After that I fought like four more security guards, after beers though. The NASCAR hall of fame got built and they had security before they had a front door. We gave up and took off and the security guard chased us and shoved me… Randomly I was chillin in the mall grab stance and smacked him with the swiftness. I knocked his tooth out and
got really scared when I saw him bleeding so I punched him and ran away. Ever since then I haven’t had too much of a conflict
If you could date any pro skater who’d it be?
Eby Ghafarian. He’s pro right?
Yea I think so. Sponsors? Shout outs?
Thanks to Eby at Naysayer and Josh at Blacksheep. Cave Boyz, Yachts, SOG, DTBLOT, NCExposure, park sharks, CHUG LIFE!

================================================================================

So John how old are you and where are you from?
I am 25 years old, and I’m from Dracut, Mass.
How did you get into skateboarding?
I started skateboarding when I was in 7th grade because my two friends Jarred Laganas and John Surrette were doing it. I always wanted a board, but my parents would never get me one because it was “too dangerous.” My buddies ended up making me a board out of all their extra parts, and since then I’ve been doing it every day.
You skate on an everyday basis with a heavy crew of skaters, Manny Santiago, Dave Bachinsky, Serge Murphy, and all of the other guys from the
Shape
and
Thanks Camera
videos, do those guys push you to bring your skating to the next level?
Well they don’t necessarily push me to, but when you’re skating with Serge and he’s hucking a heelflip down a gap or something you can’t just ride up and ollie. Or, if you’re skating a rail with Manny and he’s trying a kickflip 50-50, you gotta step it up a little more than a boardslide. So, I would say it was definitely a motivation to get better, and learn better tricks.
You just had the last part in Elliott Vecchia’s video
Sea Level
. How did you feel your part came out in it?
I felt pretty good about the part, of course there’s always stuff someone can “nit-pick” about their part, wishing that I had landed some other tricks that I couldn’t seem to get, but all in all I was pumped at the end result.
Are you currently working on any other projects right now?
Yes I’m working on another project with Elliott right now, I don’t think there’s a date yet, but sometime in 2012 I would imagine it’ll be dropping.
Are any companies or shops helping you out right now?
Eastern Boarder has always been helping me out, can’t say thanks to them enough. Currently I’ve been getting helped out from Bones wheels and bearings. DC is helping with some shoes and getting some boards from Alien Workshop.
What are your plans for the winter? Do you usually have a routine of going somewhere or are you gonna stick around Mass?
Plans for the winter are typical. Stay here, skate outside when it’s nice, indoors when it sucks. Occasionally I’ll try a little snowboarding here and there.
Got anything planned out for yourself coming up?
The only plan I got is hopefully next summer to go to NYC and D.C. a lot, those places are so rad.
Is there anyone you would like to thank or give a shout out to?
I’d like to thank everyone from Eastern Boarder. Tallone and Butchie for always helping me out. Elliott for always holding it down filming, Xeno for contributing the photos and always putting up with my shit while shooting. Everyone else that I skate with, you know who you are I don’t need to type out all them names.

================================================================================

Photos by Liam Annis
Interview by Sean Bendon
Are you driving right now?
Yeah.
What’s your hometown and how old are you?
I’m 22 years old. My hometown is Encinitas, California.
How’d you get hooked up with DGK?
I got hit up by Miles Wood, a skater that I looked up to growing up. He’s the warehouse manager at DGK and he hit me up to work in the warehouse. I was super stoked to take the opportunity and then I started working nine to five the next week. That was a really cool thing to happen because DGK was always a huge thing for me growing up and all the KAYO brands got me really sparked on skating through my teens. It was like a dream come true. Then I grew a connection with people that I‘d see coming to work like Liam Annis, shout out to Liam. He’s a photographer who works closely with DGK. I started skating with everyone more, having good times, and getting footage. Thankfully I was able to eventually start getting boards. I was super stoked on the opportunity. Thanks to Matt Daughters, Stevie Williams, Miles Wood, and all the homies! I recently moved to SF like two weeks ago. I’m taking a leave from working there, for now, just because I wanted to take an opportunity to skate and have a kind of new journey.
What is Series and who does it?
It was kind of just me for a while and now I’m doing it closely with my friend Jack Glancy. We’re just making clothes, fun random stuff , just trying to make a little brand to go with our crew because we have a tight knit crew. I have a love for making clothes, and art, and putting them together goes hand in hand.
Who’s the most underrated skateboarder from Encinitas?
My boy John Hamala is pretty slept on. He’s got a lot of talent. He’s put out a video part or two. He’s pretty low key, super good – front nose flips, super buttery. He’s got a lot of crazy manual combos, a ledge technician.
Best burrito spot in your town?
Oh shit, burritos. That’s like my favorite thing. I’ll put a quick note to anyone that travels through Encinitas, Serranos Mexican food. It’s probably my favorite place to get Mexican food. They have
these al pastor tacos for a $1.25. You can buy like ten of them if you get the whole crew. They’re cheap. Serranos. S-E-R-R-A-N-O-S. It’s really close to poods too. It’s one off ramp down. So you can get in a session, and get some cheap grub that makes you feel good and tastes good.
I saw that you did some art recently for McGill’s Skate Shop. What got you into art and what kind of art do you typically do?
I’ve been doing art for quite a while now. Four or five years as a hobby and it kind of grew on me. I’d say I’m somewhere in between a doodler and kind of cartoony type stuff. I think cartoons inspire me a lot. Cool books that I read growing up like Dr. Seuss type stuff leading on to other cool artists. Mark Bodie is a really cool artist who inspired me a lot with his work that was seen in the film Style Wars . My good friend Aiden put me on probably like five years ago maybe. I was already a doodler but Style Wars put me on to a whole type of world that I never even knew existed.
Have you been on any fun trips lately?
I went across the country with Anthony Capastagno. We skated in Boston to start. That’s where Anthony lives in the summer usually. It’s where he’s from but we drove down and passed through New York, we went to Pulaski, but it was fucking snowing, super annoying.
You drove to the East Coast to skate in the winter?
It was buck because Anthony had to get his car back home. So it was kind of a whole push to get his car from Boston. The aspect that we’re just driving through snow all the time and bundled up was very new to me.
I noticed you do a lot of switch flips. Do you have any switch flip inspiration?
Yes, Keenan.
Any goals for the rest of 2024? Looking forward to anything?
Looking forward to having more good times with the homies, getting a lot of footage, staying connected with loved ones, quality time with family. Hope Series does well, stuff like that!

================================================================================

Interview and photos by Keith DeBottis.
Ever see that
Always Sunny
episode where Frank takes people on tours around the Schuykill with some random boat?
Nah, but oh my god I saw a body get pulled out of the river one time. It was like two years ago, we were skating on Second and Race and a bunch of cop cars were driving towards the river on Front Street and I go down and they’re pulling out a dead body with a crane.
Wow, that had to put a damper on the session…
Oh it definitely did! I was like “Oh shit.” We kept skating though.
I was talking to Itchy when I got here, they were saying you all were gonna start playing shows again!
Yeah with Eat, we’re about to start playing again. We’ve been able to practice again so yeah.
Are you still with that one tape label?
Oh they just released that one album for us. But actually I think Jared is starting a little tape label. We have this one Eat album we recorded in the basement of the Dome, which is this house venue our friends used to do. We recorded an album there with Jared and we’ve been sitting on it over a year now. We recorded it a day before the lockdown. So we’re about to release that soon I hope.
That’s exciting! You gotta make another music video once that happens!
Yeah that’d be fun! We were gonna film this music video for the song “Bug’s Life.” We bought a cockroach suit and Kade was gonna dress up and be a cockroach and we were gonna chase him around the city. He was gonna be working at a restaurant serving people food in the cockroach outfit and we were gonna pull up to the restaurant and he just runs away. Eventually by the end of the video we find him and stomp him.
That sounds wild! You should definitely do that.
Oh yeah, I think Carson was gonna film it but it just never happened.
The one video Carson filmed for Walt Funk!
That was fun! We went to our friend Raffy’s and he lived in an abandoned church, it was one of those churches that had classrooms and shit. There was kind of a kitchen, he lived in the one big room with like carpet.
How eerie!
Yeah! But upstairs looked like an abandoned laboratory so we kind of just filmed the video in and out of those rooms. It was pretty fun! But yeah, now he lives in New York.
That’s cool.
I haven’t seen him. I was gonna link with him when I was there last but I was just skating. It was one of those trips where you get out at like 10 and don’t get back until later that night. It’s New York too, there’s always people doing something. Philly’s like chill, you go home, hang out for a bit and then you can go back out, but in New York you’re just out!
Oh I think those are my friends over there! That’s Ale and all of them pulling up. Ale played at a rave in a what’s it called yesterday, something gardens, what’s it called… Over there somewhere.
I’m not sure, when’s Lauren pulling up? I think she’s playing tonight!
Oh really? DJ lsrdsc! I’ve been hanging at my friend Sim’s house and Ale was spinning but that’s when she was learning. I think she’s a fucking master now!
Seems fun!
Yeah DJing seems so fun!
All you need is a guitar?
Yeah haha, I’m more like I’ll pick up a guitar or I’ll pick up a microphone. I don’t know I just started to learn how to record myself on an interface. It’s really easy but most of the time I end up turning on the phone recording and have a drum machine playing out of one amp and play the bongos or keyboard or guitar. Then try to sing over it, but it never sounds good. I just like singing and playing guitar, it’s really fun! Playing in a band is very different, like playing live as a front person.
It was always so energetic when you all were up! Cousin Danny’s show has to be my favorite so far!
Yeah that was one of my favorites. IT’S SO FUN PLAYING LIVE! Like you’re just singing in peoples’ faces, dancing around, goin all crazy just tryna keep people entertained pretty much.
I’ve never really done anything live like that, I’d be so nervous!
Yeah, I always get really nervous before and sometimes I’ve been kinda buggin just like “Oh shit, I really gotta do this, get up there and sing.” But once you get up there you kinda just turn on and you’re able to do it. Once the music stats you just dance around!
Imma put that set on my YouTube.
Yeah! I remember watching som of it a few months after and I was like “You should put this out” and you said “I wanna let it age a little bit” and I was like “okay!” but now it’s aged it feels good, put it out!
How about your YouTube? You got one?
Oh yeah my YouTube, I have a little YouTube channel. I’ll put up funny videos. I did a double stuffed Oreo review with my friends and then I also did a pepper spray review with Kade but it’s private. It’s unlisted now cause you know, it’s a little embarrassing but it’s funny. It’s a good video. If you want the link to watch it I’ll send it to you. But right now I have music from albums and EPs I’ve recorded. Just random songs I feel like putting up, or if I ever record a new song, or if I’m just singing and playing guitar I just kinda put an iPhone demo up. Cause…Well it’s fun to put it out there. Yah know, it feels good, it feels like yah did something.
Yeah, it’s cool to look back on, also a great way to organize.
I just started shooting more photos with that point and shoot I got off you! It’s addicting!
Isn’t it!? I’m glad! How about the clothes you’ve been making, anything new?
I wanna learn how to make the clothes from scratch and then print on it! Instead of buying thrifted pants and printing on those. Me personally, I wanna be involved in the whole process of it.
Yeah, that’s cool to know all approaches to a piece of clothing.
Cause then I feel like it’s more yours yah know. I want to do more than just buy the thrifted pant or shirt or whatever.
That’s definitely the start though. Going through a bunch of clothes at a thrift store gives you an idea of what you like.
Yeah. I’m looking for a certain fir of pants when I go look for pants or certain texture or material or whatever so if I could just make it, that would be amazing! My friend Jessica has a bunch of cut outs. She made this beeeeaauutiful trench coat and she was wearing a shirt the other day that she made. It’s really impressive, makes you wanna make some shit like that. I started with like cutting and uh…Did I bring my grinder? Damn, hopefully someone has a grinder cause I’m trying to roll up! But I started with sewing and cutting fabrics and just sewing a lot of stuff onto pants. I would just cut up clothing and sew it onto other shit, but then I saw the stuff you were doing and I was like “oh printing on it is really cool” and you’re doin that spray paint shit with the stencils from photos you make. I was like “that’s a cool idea. But I wanna do my own thing with it.” But I was definitely inspired by the ink on the clothes. I remember I had this cut out from this book of poetry that I made so I started printing onto the pants like that. I made three pairs of pants that I was really proud of! I shot my friends wearing them, like Kade sitting on the toilet. My roommate John cooked some eggs while he was wearing the pants. Had Lauren driving her car. Just having people do natural stuff while wearing the pants.
In my opinion that’s the best shit, those natural activities when it comes to capturing clothes. That studio stuff is rad but it makes those clothes seem too fragile or something.
Yeah I know, that stuff is beautiful. People need to see that more. People are so normal yah know! You gotta capture that shit!
Something normal to us could be totally different to another. It’s cool seeing what people make and how they put it out there. In my opinion media naturally adjusts our eyes to what we like to see, unknowingly or knowingly. You pick up on a lot looking at photos everyday.
Yeah! Social media is great, I actually met a lot of queer skaters and trans skaters through social media, and like just seeing other trans people is comforting and makes yah feel good.
An accepting community is the backbone to anyone’s confidence.
Yeah once you have a community you’re so much more comfortable with yourself! It’s scary at times.
You’re fairly early into your transition, how do you feel?
It’s May now, I’m six months on HRT so I just had my little sixth month HRT anniversary! It was amazing! I feel amazing! I’ve wanted to be here for so long and I’m finally here. When I look to the future I know I’ll be this far along HRT. I’ll be this far along my transition. It’s a beautiful feeling! It’s an amazing feeling to be in a place you were wishing to be in the future. Finally being there and being happy, it’s only gonna get better!
What a huge milestone for you, what an accomplishment!
Yeah, I feel really good! I’m proud of myself, and like, I look back at myself six months ago and I’m proud of her yah know! She got me to where I am today. Me!
How about physically, like while you’re skating. Do you feel differences?
Yes, I get really sore now. I have to pace myself when I skate. I try to stay on top of it but it gets scary if I’m about to skate a big set, like “can I physically still do this?” Maybe I’m just getting older, I don’t know.
We’re definitely getting older…
Yeah! I feel better than I used to because now I stretch everyday. I used to not stretch. I also drink way less. I used to drink like every night since I graduated high school but now it’s only like once, maybe twice a week!
That’s awesome! Nothing but positivity from here on out! You look super healthy!
Thank you! Yeah I feel great, I used to feel like shit all the time. I used to wake up at 12, 1, 2pm. Now I wake up at 7, 8, or 9am yah know. I like getting my day started early now. You get the whole day!
It’s refreshing for sure, whenever I sleep in I feel fucking crazy, like I just got hit by a truck.
Yeah for real. I’m about to grind this up with my hands…But yeah I feel way better physically and mentally than I did in the past because I’ve wanted to be here for so long. Where you actually see the changes happening and become more comfortable with yourself.
And being tunnel driven to get to these goals!
Yeah, like what is best for me? What will make me happy? What is in my best interest? What can I do to help myself out and make myself happiest?
Beautiful! So what’s next? Where do you see yourself in the next two years or whatever?
Well I have to take this one drawing class so I can get into school so I can go for fibers, but I’m pretty busy with other stuff. I don’t know, I’ve been skating a lot and there’s some like, modeling gigs that I, I don’t know if I could just do that.
For
sure, well I think just where you are right now is a huge accomplishment. You should be really proud of yourself! You being yourself and doing what you love will only place you where you gotta be!
Thank you Keith, I never thought I’d be able to skate as much as I do. It’s really fun! I fell in love with skating again. I was on and off the past few years but since the fall I’ve been skating like everyday!
What motivates you to go out and skate, maybe get a clip or whatever?
Ummmm, OCD…I feel like, remember the other day we were skating. I wasn’t doing the trick and then I was like “ah fuck it” and then you were like “yeah well” but then I kept trying it even though I said I was gonna stop. Like I can’t stop until I do it, you know? It bugs me, I need to follow through. Like today, remember when I got the line and I was like, “I’m done!” Like I was so happy!
That was fuckin rad! Half cab crook 180 then you switched heeled into us standing there, looked up and yelled “I’m done! I can smoke weed the rest of the day.”
Yeah that’s how I felt! Like I said I get tired, I’ve been skating for the whole month. I was so ready to chill and skate flat!
Getting back to normal will be fun, it’s gonna be the roaring ’20s all over again. Shit’s gonna explode in a way!
Yeah it already feels like things are going crazy! I never thought that me and you, I never thought we’d be doing what we’re doing right now. Look at us two years ago!
I can’t wait to see what the future holds for you Efron!!
Thank you! I can’t wait to see what the future holds for you. I feel like we’re all just having a good time, tryna do what we’re interested in, what we love! Imma smoke this spliff now!
Really getting into what you love!
Yeah haha, weed. I love weed!

================================================================================

Interview by Nnamdi Ihekwoaba
Photos by Owen Basher
What are you up to today? What’s your daily routine?
Go to work, get off, go hang out with my girl, or go skate.
I was actually lurking old footage of you recently. I was doing some research and some slight stalking…
Oh yeah? Those old videos are some of the most cringe videos of my skating haha.
Where in the DMV are you from? How was growing up in the area?
I was born in Silver Spring, Maryland and I grew up in Glenmont. I didn’t really start skating D.C. too much until I got older. My mom was really strict about me going out there just from her experiences growing up.
It was definitely a different D.C. back in the ’80s and ’90s.
Sometimes I tell her now that I’m at Shaw (skatepark) and she’s like “You’re up there??” and I’m like “…yeah?” and then she would tell me about shit that used to happen to her when she was growing up around there.
We skate pretty often but you’re up on a much earlier sunrise than a lot of us.
Yeah, I’m up by 4 o’clock. I gotta be at work by 5. It really sucks especially when you guys wanna be out late and I just can’t sometimes.
What do you do for work?
I’m an electrician. My company is contracted for Amazon so I technically work for Amazon. It’s like a second party type of thing.
How did you get into that?
From a family friend. He recommended me to the company that I work for now. I was mostly doing new construction before that and I’ve been doing this for about two years now.
That’s cool, how did you get into trade in general?
Through high school. I was in a trade school for two years of high school. I went to Thomas Edison. I was doing architecture there and I got really into it but I didn’t want to pursue that in college. They had me taking classes that I didn’t need to take for architecture. I was really fluent in CAD and everything but in college they had me taking two language classes and a bunch of other unnecessary classes that I felt like I didn’t really need in order to pursue architecture.
Were you encouraged to skate growing up? When did you start skating?
My two best friends Quinn and Hunter got me into skating and I was immediately hooked. My mom wasn’t so hyped on me skating, especially when I had broken bones or whatever but my friends were really the ones motivating me to skate.
Sometimes your parents aren’t hyped and then they see what it’s doing for you and your life.
And then they start to get it. They understand what skateboarding does socially.
How did you get involved with Embark?
I started skating with Eddie Gutierrez a bunch and we just kept on filming and skating. I guess Brent from Embark had him… I wouldn’t say recruiting, but keeping an eye on people that he’d like to ride for Embark. Brent ended up asking me if I wanted to ride for the shop and I was super down.
Embark is cool, they are doing their thing. They are taking that legacy of what Pitcrew did and keeping it pushing. It’s cool to be a part of that second generation that follows in Pitcrew’s footsteps.
Yeah, they are keeping the scene alive over there in Frederick.
Who were your influences on your skating growing up?
Probably Omar Salazar. He was one of the big ones. He’s actually the only one that comes to mind right now. He’s a legend.
How has skating in D.C. shaped your perspective on spots and filming?
Well to be honest, I feel like you guys are the ones that got me out skating the city more. I filmed with Eddie out in Maryland a lot and we were always driving from spot to spot. It got to the point that I got tired of driving and I just wanted to skate. So I’ve been taking the metro into the city a lot more and just skating. It’s been awesome.
When you are pushing around I feel like you can see things in more detail.
That’s true but I also feel like I’ve always had an eye for spots even when I was driving around. As far as just driving past something and being able to see if something can be done.
Thanks for your time. Is there anybody you’d like to shout out?
For sure, definitely shout out to you and Owen for making this all happen. Shout out to Embark. Shout out to Beltway and Statue. Shout out to my girl Helen, gotta do that. Shout out to my mom and my pops. And lastly, shout out fucking Glenmont.

================================================================================

How’s it going Serge let’s start with the normal boring basics How old are you, where you from, and who is currently helping you out?
I’m 21 I live in Dracut, Massachusetts, a town over from Lowell and I’ve been getting things from Bones, Powell, and I skate for Eastern Boarder.
You’ve been getting a lot of coverage this year in the past. You were in
Thanks Camera 4 Jump the Shark
, had the ender in
Shape Deuce
, and were in the finals for the Bones Wheels contest. How long have you been filming all of this for?
I’ve been filming for those videos for about 2 and a half years, and the Bones video was pretty much my
Shape Deuce
part with a couple other things added into it.
The concept of the Bones wheels contest was cool. Personally I thought it would’ve been better if it wasn’t by votes because whoever has the most Facebook friends wins you know? You must’ve still been stoked you made the finals, though right?
Haha, yeah I was really psyched that they picked me. Yeah they have been giving me stuff for a while. I love Bones there the best!!!
Now that all these videos have drop and you had that trick in Manny Santiago’s 9-10-11 video people are gonna start noticing you more are you gonna keep doing what you’re doing and filming in the streets or are you gonna hit the contest circuit?
Haha well I’m always going to film in the streets, but I’ve never really entered any contests before. I would like to though, it seems pretty fun!
How did you become friends with Dave(Bachinsky), Manny(Santiago), Justin Hogan, and all the Lowell heads?
I met them through skating with my friends in my hometown that knew them and they introduced me to all of them after a little while.
Did they help you get your name out at all? Or was it mostly from the video parts?
Yeah they definitely helped me out like motivating me to go skate as much as possible, and letting me have parts in their videos was awesome. I’m psyched that they let me be a part of everything.
Whose parts were you most stoked on in Shape Deuce? I loved Matt Fennell and John Coyne’s part how about you?
Aww I can’t even pick man i love everyone’s parts everyone kills it so hard!!!
What should we keep our eyes out for in the future for yourself?
That I’m going to be skating as much as i can and just trying to keep myself going as long as I can.
Want to thank anyone?
Yeah shout out to Hadley Crew and all of my friends, family, and everyone who supports me. Thank you so much!

================================================================================

Interview by Devin Colon
Photos by Ricky Aponte
One thing I always noticed about Josh was his trick selection. The spots in Western Mass often require some outside the box thinking, and Josh will always walk away with something clever. The Western Mass skate scene has been getting older, which means those adult responsibilities kick in and skating starts to fall to the wayside. To push through all that and still be progressing takes a certain type of person. Josh has been on a different type of tear recently, and I think it’s time he starts getting the recognition he deserves.
How in the world do you pronounce your last name?
In Polish the “Dzia” is pronounced “Jah” so it’s Jah-deck.
I think I knew you for a few years before I learned that. So what projects do you got going right now?
I’m finishing up my part for
Frame
, the new Theory Skateshop video, and trying to get the last couple photos for this interview.
Rumor has it you have four songs worth of footy for this part. How has the filming been going?
Yeah, this is definitely the most footage I’ve had for a part. I try to get a clip every Sunday with Peter (Freeman) and if I’m motivated during the week, I’ll go film with Greg (Sanocki) after work. I love filming with those two so that makes the process even easier.
I know you’ve been a postal worker for a while now. How has that been? How many spots have you discovered?!
I really like my job. The learning curve was tough. I definitely had some late nights delivering mail in the dark with a headlamp on, but once you get it down it’s easy. I’ve found a few spots, but my last job was dry cleaning delivery all over Western Mass and I used to find so many spots.
(Noah) Wait, so how old are you, and how long have you been doing this? It’s in a really rural town right?
I’m 28 and I’ve been delivering mail for two years. It’s pretty rural in parts, with long sketchy driveways into the woods. I’ve got a couple of those streets on my route but thankfully I have a section of what can be considered downtown.
(N) What’s it like working for the government?
Strange when I think about it. I took an oath to defend the constitution at 7:30 in the morning the first day I trained and it was weird. I do like the importance of my job at times, like collecting the mail-in ballots was cool. Then other days you’re delivering junk mail and it feels less important. I have a retirement plan, health insurance, and all that stuff so I’m very thankful for that.
(N) Tell me about your beef with the trash haulers?
My whole job is driving up to mailboxes and it’s policy if you can’t get to the box to bring the mail back. For months they were blocking a whole street and I was so pissed. I think they caught on because lately it’s not as bad. The beef has been squashed.
What’s up with the spot log notebook you got for Christmas?
My girlfriend Em somehow found that at Barnes and Noble. Seriously the best Christmas present ever. It has a checklist for what kind of spot it is, rate the spot, run up, roll away, bust factor, trick ideas and a little section to sketch the spot. I have hundreds of screenshots on my phone of spots I found on google earth so now I just gotta fill that book.
Who or what crew has influenced your skating the most?
That’s a tough one. So many people have influenced my skating over the years. I’ve always been a big fan of Brad Cromer. No matter what he does, he makes it look good. Recently I’ve been inspired a lot by Tom Karangelov and Jordan Taylor and their spot and trick selection.
How did you start doing the front board ollie out to the other side? I remember it escalated into you doing it at Lynch park down the handrail one day and everyone lost it!
Logan Devlin was the first person I saw do that trick. There was a video of him on instagram doing it backside. I think Jel showed me the video at HSP one day and was telling me to try it. I ended up figuring them out backside and then frontside a little while after that. It only works on certain kinds of rails. It needs to have enough rail on the side so you have the leverage to basically power ollie over the rail. Lynch has a rail like that so I went for it that day and it worked out. I was so hyped. Dan Dziuban introduced me to Jim Thiebaud immediately after that and I couldn’t even process what was happening. That was a really good day.
Who is helping you out with boards right now? How’d the connections come about?
Justin Maruco is flowing me Polar boards right now. If I‘m remembering correctly I think I told Dziuban I really liked their boards and he reached out to Justin for me and made that happen. Been a fan of Polar for a long time so I’m definitely hyped.
I can’t wait to see your part dropping soon dude. Any closing shoutouts or thank yous?
I wanna say thank you to Ricky for shooting the photos, Dan and Frank at Theory, Justin at Polar, Jimmy at Cons, Peter and Greg for filming and putting up with me, Noah at Skate Jawn for asking me to do the interview, Emily Fish, Goat Mob, HSP crew, the Sunday crew and anyone else I forgot to mention.

================================================================================

Tell me about your Pittsburgh adventure.
So I went to Pittsburgh for the weekend with Willie (Stackus) and (Zach) Dykes. On Saturday, Dyke’s fuel pump breaks and we have to put the car in the shop. We skate Sunday and hope to be able to leave by Monday night, didn’t happen, turns out it doesn’t get fixed till Wednesday. We get to the shop and find out that a capture cam with a tape full of footage, cds, Willie’s backpack, and my EZ pass are missing from the car. Dykes confronts the owner of the shop about our missing things. The guy was bummed there were things missing but said he had nothing to do with it. We took the loss, packed what we had left and hit the road around 11p.m. About 45 minutes outside of Pittsburgh we hear something hit the right side of the car and get sucked under the back wheel. We were in denial, so we kept going. Thirty minutes go by and we hear the unforgettable sound of a flat tire. Sure enough the back right tire is flat. Dykes had roadside assistance so he called another tow truck out. We are on the turnpike, at the end of an S curve. Trucks are flying by close so we decided to wait behind a barrier. We shared one warm beer and a few smokes while we waited for the truck. The truck pulls up, and it’s a guy who looks to be in his late fifties. I spotted an Independent sticker on his back window and took it as a good omen. We climbed into his truck and took off. He tells us his name is Mark and that he has a shop about 35 miles in the opposite direction, but he could fix the car and we could get on the road right away. After not showering for five days and being worn out, we agreed.
So he’s driving further away from the turnpike. Real far out, no lights or street signs. He makes a turn onto an even darker road, and we drive another 10 minutes. Eventually he pulls into a driveway and announces our arrival. We see a house and behind that was a garage with some older cars in it. After taking another look at the tire, he says that his son may have the right tire, but that it would have to wait until the morning. We asked him if there was a hotel or lodge in the area we could stay at. There was not, but he offered us his basement. After a long pause we agreed. I’m not going to lie, we were sketched. After chilling with him for a little while and him showing us photos of him doing burnout contests back in the day, we realized he was actually really cool. We felt a little better about sleeping in the basement of a guy we met an hour ago. It also helped that this old guy smoked us out before bed! By 3 a.m. we wanted to get some sleep. When I woke up in the morning, Dykes had fallen asleep with a knife in his hand.
I wake up and hear an old lady (wife) asking Dykes who he was and why he was on her couch with a knife in his hand. He explained the story and she seemed satisfied. After that Mark came down the stairs and tells us he’s got coffee for us and that his son is on his way with the tire, which was the best thing we had heard in days. Somehow his son did have the exact tire Dykes needed and they put it on the rim for him and mounted it. We hung out for a bit and talked, but wanted to get back on the road. Dykes asked him how much we owed him. $20. We could not believe that this guy had saved us from the turnpike, taken us into his home, fed us and helped us get back on the road for $20. We did not know how to thank him. He said it was cool and that we needed to go. We got back on the road and made it back, in disbelief at the ridiculous change in our luck. Mark didn’t have to do any of that, but he did. Thank you Mark! Crazy way to start the summer off.
Woof, Favorite Manny story?
It was my friend’s birthday and we were in Philly. After hours of drinking, we decided to go to McDonalds around three or four in the morning. My friends order gets messed up and they accuse him of taking someone else’s food. This being Philly, the McDonald’s security guard got in my friend’s face. He punched him and they fell to the floor in a big ball. Several of the McDonald’s workers join in to help the guard. By this time, the guard has his hands around my friend’s throat and it doesn’t look good. Out of nowhere, Manny runs in and drags him out of the pile by his arms, which doesn’t make sense since there were multiple people on top of him. After running for a few minutes Philly’s finest caught up to us. They ran our ID’s and asked us what we were doing. I said skating, even though none of us had our boards. They ended up letting me and Manny go, but taking my friend in because he had a warrant. They let him out an hour later, and even gave him a ride to where we were staying. The best part was that someone filmed everything inside the McDonalds and it was all on Worldstar the next morning, including Manny’s heroics.
http://
That clip never gets old. Let’s end with a Franco quote.
“She kissed me in ways which I never knew!”
Shoutouts?
Thanks to you, all the DC homies, and everybody in Pittsburgh that helped us out on that trip, especially Mark.

================================================================================

Photos by CJ Harker
Interview with Jesse Clayton
When did Pops skatepark get built and how?
We started it in the fall of 2008 and it opened in the early summer of 2009. How it got built was just a bunch of volunteers. There was that rec center that was kind of underfunded by the city, and there was a group of local people, a couple of ‘em worked for NKCDC, which is a local community development corporation. One of the women that was working there volunteering, came into Exit skate shop back when it was still on Girard avenue and was like, “Hey, what’s it take to get a skatepark built?” You know, there’s these kids that were skating in the corner of the rec center. There was a little roller hockey court that was empty that they were using. We told her we had done this before and all we needed was permission and a little bit of money, and that just kind of snowballed.
Had you ever made a skatepark before?
No. I mean I had done a bunch of mini ramps and just DIY projects, like crete’ing up a barrier or whatever. I definitely knew I had enough construction background to do it. The project kind of changed as we were going through it. At first we were trying to be really minimalist and almost trying to build a skate park in disguise by making planters, trying to call it a sculpture garden, thinking that people wouldn’t know it was a skate park. But once the cat was outta the bag, it was like just go for it. We got busted halfway through by parks and recreation. The engineers came down and served us papers, stop work orders, saying that this is city property and there are no contracts, there’s no insurance. We had this follow-up meeting with the commissioner of parks and rec. But in between when we got shut down and when that follow-up meeting was, we had gotten word from the Tony Hawk foundation that we received a $10,000 grant from them. That was right around the amount of money we needed to finish up. So it’s kind of like we were going into that meeting with a secret weapon. It ended up totally working out. We finished with that grant money and had the grand opening, cut the ribbon with the city council person, blah, blah.
Were you happy with the way the park turned out initially, or with the grand opening? What was your initial reaction?
There were definitely flaws in the park that I wasn’t happy with, but after it opened, seeing it full of people every day, it was pretty easy to just focus on the positive. There was just so much overwhelming, positive energy that whatever the flaws in the concrete were, or the design, it kind of didn’t matter. But then as time went on some of the weird, screwed up things about that park are kind of my favorite things.
How would you say the neighborhood has changed since the park has been built? And do you think the skatepark had anything to do with it?
The neighborhood’s changed a lot. You could have bought one of those empty shells on the block for probably 20 grand and now they got two bedroom row homes going for half a million dollars. It’s insane. I think the change happening in the neighborhood was gonna happen regardless. But I definitely think the skatepark was kind of like an early adopter. That neighborhood was still pretty dangerous back then. It’s half a mile away from the epicenter of open air drug sales in the United States. So even now that real estate values are going through the roof, it’s still not necessarily a “safe” neighborhood. But yeah the neighborhood’s completely different. There’s a jiu-jitsu gym across the street in a warehouse that used to be completely abandoned and full of people shooting up. I think the skatepark was part of it, but I think that tide was coming either way.
These renovations that just happened, how’d that come about?
Our friends Chad and Steph over at Zembo, a local skate shop, they love the park and they’re always there skating with the locals. I guess there was some conflict with some of the new neighbors that just bought some $600,000 condo and the park was looking kind of run down. They were kind of getting concerned like “yo, the park’s the ugliest thing in the neighborhood now.” It used to be like the most vibrant and colorful thing in the neighborhood! Chad and Steph started a GoFundMe and they were the ones that approached me and Sloan like “Can you help us put together a budget and get this going?”
Did you see the tintype photos CJ shot?
Yeah. I mean when he does ‘em they develop like right on site, you know? He had this little dark room set up. So we were watching him cranking them out. I’m sure there’s a handful I haven’t seen, but they’re dope. It makes it look like we’re working on the place in like 1860.

================================================================================

Photos by Daniel Elyamen.
Interview by Joel Meinholz.
What do you think’s up with the Miami skate scene right now?
It’s cool. My crew is small.
It’s been interesting getting to know you guys, you and your crew. How is it when you see heads from out of town coming in skating everything?
I like it, I like to see them skate the spots we skate. They’ll skate it differently. That’s how it is when you go out of town. When you come from out of town you look at spots differently. I grew up looking at all the spots so it’s like nothing new to me.
So you’re saying you like the energy of people coming from out of town? It inspires you?
Yeah, I especially like to skate with the homies from New York. I’m hyped when Barco pulls up, all the Bronze dudes and shit.
How’d you get hooked up with those cats?
Danny Dipalo, that’s who I stay with when I’m in New York. His roommates were Dick Rizzo and Buggy, so I started skating with them boys. That’s how I started skating with Bronze.
What year was that?
Probably 2018.
When did you start growing more? I saw footage of you and you looked like a little shorty.
When was my growth spurt? In 2019 I shot up like four or five inches. I was like ‘what the fuck?’
Did it help with your pop?
Hell yeah, when I got taller it opened up so many spots. A lot of shit started looking easier. Things that looked tall to me back then look easier.
How’d you get into skating?
When I was a jit I was always outside and I had a skateboard in my garage. I started skating around, that’s what I used to get around as my transportation. Once a year passed by I met Elijah and started skating with him. I started skating with Elijah when I was nine.
Did you watch skate videos?
I’d just go on YouTube and search up ‘best of skateboarding’ or some shit. I think the first skate video I seen was
Stay Gold.
Stay Gold B-Sides
was what I liked to watch.
What cities do you like skating? You were just on a trip to Puerto Rico, where else do you like to go?
I just like Miami, that’s the only city I like to skate.
You don’t like New York? Not even when you’re with your crew?
It’s cool but I don’t even like skating New York that much. I like Miami more.
When you asked me before what my favorite city to skate was, I said whatever crew I’m with. What’s your favorite crew?
Our crew, Andrew.
Who’s that?
Elijah, Josh, Buss Out, Drew, Joel. Our crew is small as fuck. Small ass crew.
What about Nick?
I like skating with Nick a lot because I like skating around the bends a lot.
How did you first meet Nick?
I first met Nick at Lot 11 I think in 2015. He came up to me, he’d seen me skate, and was like ‘yo I’m about to start a skate shop. I want you to skate for it’ and I was like ‘ight, for sure.’ He took me out skating one time and then I didn’t skate with him for like three months after until he came back around and I started skating with him again.
He’s done a lot for the city, shout out to Nick.
Hell yeah.
Is there any old shit from Miami that sticks out to you?
Yeah, I can’t even lie
,
Danny Fuenzalida’s
MIA
part. That’s honestly one of the best parts from Miami, easily.
What about before that?
I like watching old footage of you, that gets me hyped. I like watching footage of people I know personally. I don’t like watching people that I don’t know because I don’t even know how they are. Like I might not like them. But if I meet you and I like you, I’ll probably like your footage. That’s how it goes.
What are your favorite spots in Miami right now to skate?
I’ll just say Civic Center. We brought that back. Also, I’m never mad at Ghetto Banks.
So your boy Daniel has some questions.
What inspired you to buy Carti buffs?
Art Basil was coming up. You know how it is.
What’d you wear them to?
I wore them to this big dinner we had. That’s where I really brought them out. I like those glasses though, I look good in them.
Do you go out in Miami a lot? You guys never really go out.
Nah, we do. We go out to Peach Fuzz every Friday. Every Monday I go to E11EVEN. It’s a strip club. The homie lets me in so every Monday I’m there from like 11pm to 2am probably.
Table service? How much money have you dropped there before?
I don’t really get table service, I just go in there to do my thing. One time I dropped $400.
What do you like outside of skating?
I don’t know. I just try to make money and chill.
What makes you the happiest in life?
Knowing my mom is good. As long as she’s happy I’m happy.
Are you trying to take out Elijah?
Yeah, for sure.
Talk your shit. You see him get a clip, do you think ‘nah I can do it better’?
That’s just how it is. I’m trying to keep up with Elijah.
What’s up with this new Andrew video?
This Andrew video is supposed to come out in December 2022.
Who will have parts?
Me and Elijah will have a part. Everyone, we’re all gonna have a part. It’s gonna be good.
What’s up with this Adidas thing right now? You getting hooked up?
Yeah, I’m about to skate some shell toes.
What’s a good looking flip trick?
Best flip trick? Nollie frontside flip.
Who has the best one?
Probably Ishod.
How’d you get on Quasi?
I can’t lie, Dick Rizzo and Josh Wilson and them boys put me on Quasi. I’m forever grateful.
Last words?
I need to thank Nick. He put me on. He put Miami on the map. Also Daniel, Peter, Matt, Chad Bowers, Nate Alton, Paul. Shout out to my homies Dza, Press, Fellah too, that’s my big homie. He was showing me how to move, putting me on game when I was a jit. Thank you.

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis. Photos by Kris Qua.
I just want to get this out of the way first, let’s talk about your dad’s YouTube with footage of you skating for the past twelve years. How does that make you feel?
I think it’s sick going back and watching all the videos from when I was really young. Actually last night I was watching videos of my friends from when we were like 5, and it’s sick to just see my progression throughout the years.
Why do you think the one where he calls you a grom has the most views?
Uh, I don’t really remember this video, but grom is a big word in skateboarding. I feel like it means you’re good when you’re younger.
Would you consider yourself a grom?
I definitely was, not now though. I try to compare myself to people who are not at the grom level now.
How old are you anyway?
I’m 16 years old.
You’re still in high school and everything?
Well, I’m doing online school, but yeah I’m in 11th grade. Just started a week ago.
What’s the best
thing about growing up in Albany?
I love the skate scene in Albany. When I was growing up we had this backyard ramp and we’d throw these sessions called “Quafest.” I was really young and that’s when it clicked for me to start getting into skating. All the Albany dudes would come and it was super sick. We’ve got a skateshop here, Seasons. They do a lot for the community and everybody knows and loves them. They are just a big group of homies that go out and street skate and film.
Is Seasons where you picked up a
Skate Jawn
for the first time?
Yeah, my dad always goes to pick up the new issue and I’ll check them out with him.
You know there was a maze of you in an old issue?
I do know that! That’s crazy. When I saw that I was just like what the heck.
So you grew up skating with your sister too right?
I did, but she stopped when she was 13 or so. I remember there was this one fall she took on our backyard ramp where I feel like it just ended it all for her. She just wasn’t feeling like eating it anymore.
Do you have an after school job or anything like that?
I was doing skate lessons at my local skatepark and was kind of making money for a minute, but I haven’t gotten any lessons in a while, so no real job.
Have you ever had a real job?
I haven’t, but in the winter I’m planning to get a job on this snowboarding mountain.
Nice, have you been to Woodward a bunch?
I think I went like four times and stayed for a week. It was pretty sick. I was going to go this summer but then I canceled. I just wasn’t feeling it.
You ever do the mega ramp?
I did. When I was like 12, it was crazy.
Didn’t a 12 year old do a 900?
I don’t even know dude, it’s crazy to me. I think the kid who did that 900 was at the mega ramp when I was there and he backflipped it or something.
Do you believe in god?
I do not, and probably won’t ever.
Do you skate vert?
I think it’s fun to experiment with vert just because it gets me out of my comfort zone a little.
Do you remember when you made the transition from little ramp kid to big rail kid?
I had this red ramp in my backyard growing up and I would take a flatbar, and put it off the end on a cinderblock, and just do little taps of tricks off of it. I feel like that got me into rail skating a little. It’s fun to skate a ramp every once in a while but I’m all about the streets now.
Do you have any trips planned or anything you’re excited for?
There’s this company called Calm that’s a group of kids from around the world and they’re bringing me to New York City with them and then they’re coming up to Albany for a little bit.  Then I’m going to Tampa for Tampa Am.
Are you trying to get in on the contest scene?
Yeah, I don’t like contests but I just do it to see friends and socialize with people I haven’t seen in a while.
What about that money if you win though?
True! Seeing all the people that have won in the past, it just doesn’t seem very likely that I would win.
Are you going to graduate high school and go to college or are you over it?
I’m not sure what’s going to happen with college, but definitely going to graduate at least.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
The goal is to be pro. If it doesn’t happen I don’t really care, but I’ll be bummed for sure because that’s what I’m putting all this effort into.

================================================================================

What you up to?
Just in the LES walking to the subway, heading home.
Where are you from?
I’m originally from right outside of Boston, but I lived in Philly for eight years and moved up to New York two years ago. So even though I grew up in Boston, in terms of me living on my own, Philly is home to me in a sense.
What brought you to Philly?
I went to college there. Temple University. Just through knowing there was a good skate scene, and my friend Shaun Williams was always skating Philly. I made a couple trips and skated Cecil, so I figured if I was gonna go somewhere on the East Coast, I might as well go somewhere that was good to skate.
What about New York? What brought you out there?
At the time I was going up here for work a lot, 4-5 days a week, and there was so much commuting. My lease in Philly was up, Jordan Trahan had a room open, so between the lease, an open room, and me having to work here it all worked out. So the stars aligned, and it was easy.
You still live in the same spot?
Nah we got rid of that spot a year ago, it was tight, I miss it. We had a huge apartment, but Jordan was starting to get hooked up a lot with New Balance and going on trips and it made sense for him to not be on the lease, so I moved to Bed-Stuy.
Did you study photography in school?
No I went to school for video and right before I went to Temple I started getting into photography. The entire time at Temple I tried to do as little schoolwork as possible within my major, and just shot a ton of photos. I graduated without doing a senior project or anything significant for my degree. I don’t know how it really worked out. But that was the time I learned the most as a photographer, at least for shooting skating.
Didn’t you make a skate video back in the day?
In 8th grade I got a Sony trv340, which was a digi 8 cam and started filming with two of my good friends that lived like a mile away from me. That ended up being my first video,
Metropolis
, which was really a crash course in terms of learning how to shoot and edit, neither of which I was very good at. Right after Metropolis we made
City People
1&2. The City People videos were more planned, same crew we’d skate with normally except I was dedicated to filming as much as possible and everyone was psyched to film a video part. It was probably everyone’s first video part now that I think about it.
How often do you take pictures?
This winter…the last photo I took I can’t remember to be honest. But normally I’d say one skate photo a week. I go out to shoot more than one a week though. If I shoot four skate photos a month I’d say that’s productive.
You ever get to shoot naked chicks?
Np, I’ve never done that haha.
What about models?
I’ve done a little bit of that.
What’s up with CASTE?
CASTE is a collaborative project that I work on, everyone involved gets to pursue their interests. For me it’s mainly a visual endeavor, where for others it’s garments or design based””and we work together to make stuff that goes beyond a single product or video. We keep projects bouncing off one another. We also have a lot of help from friends so it’s not limited to just ourselves, who are as consistently involved.
What’s the most stairs you’ve ever hucked?
I think 7. I’ve ollied 7 stairs. How does that compare to your last photographer interview?
I think Xeno said he did 10.
That’s a boldfaced lie””haha. Just kidding.
You ever get hurt bad skating?
Yeah I broke my ankle really bad in high school at the chinatown courts in Boston.
You ever get hurt sneezing?
Haha. Who were you talking to before this interview? I coincidentally threw out my back when I had a cold and that has somehow stuck with me. So I guess that’s an injury from sneezing. That’s pretty soft for
Skate
Jawn
huh?
You ever have a camera break from skating/getting hit?
No I’ve never had one break from getting hit, but two years ago I was shooting a photo with Jimmy McDonald, it was his pro debut 5Boro ad…a front wallride. I shot a photo and the camera exploded on itself. I’ve never really been hit, a lot of close calls though.
What’s one of your favorite trips you’ve ever been on?
My favorite skate trips are probably with the crew from Temple when I was going to school there. we went to Houston and Austin a few times, and Miami. That was the best in terms of combining everything, that was tight. I could shoot photos all day and skate with all of my friends. Avoiding winter for a few weeks with your friends, those are definitely the best trips.
Who do you think you’ve shot the most photos of ever?
I’d say either Jimmy (McDonald) or Ishod.
How many photos have you shot of Love gap?
Ishod’s switch flip, Tom Asta doing a switch heel and switch front heel, Ishod front shuv, Ishod heelflip, Spivey nollie, he slipped out but it was a land, it was sick. Jimmy Carlin hardflip, which was shitty photo but still got used.
You have that nollie photo? Anyone ever see that?
It’s on a blog I’ve done at some point. It’s on the internet somewhere. It was sick. I can find it for you. He might as well have done it. I think it was the night of Ishod doing the switch flip, and these two dudes rolled up and I didn’t know who Jason Spivey was. We already had the generator on and Jason started skating the gap with Ishod. It was super rad like what the hell is this kid doing? Why would you wanna skate it and he started going for a nollie, which is even sicker. He wasn’t there with a filmer, just rolled up with his homie. He definitely had no intentions of skating it. But, it was pretty rad that he was skating it with Ishod.
You ever get a ticket at Love park?
Twice. Once I was just taking photos. As everyone ran I chilled on the stairs and they gave me and my friend who was filming tickets cause they claimed we were encouraging skateboarders. I’m not sure how that makes sense. And then another time I was skating and I ran two blocks away then a cop rolled up behind me and gave me a ticket.
What do you look for in a woman?
Oh my god. Can I skip that one?
No…
Artsy & Crafty
Advice on how to freelance?
My advice would be to pick your battles. Skateboarding teaches you to never settle and work independently, but sometimes to make ends meet you need to compromise to keep pushing work you’re passionate about forward.

================================================================================

Why do you stay in Texas?
It’s comfortable, and I can be lazy. Dallas and Austin have a good skate scene.  Eventually I want to make a move, maybe SF. Some crazy shit happened just  yesterday. I hit a deer at 70mph.
Damn dude, did it die?
I don’t know man, I just had to keep driving. It was nighttime and I was in the  country outside Austin.
Why did you turn down Zero boards?
It didn’t feel like I was part of the brand. I was just getting boards with no real  path forward. Steve over at DOA keeps it fun and not too serious. I still haven’t met  him in person, but we FaceTime and help each other out whenever we can.
Did you really grind a 56 stair?
It was actually just a 47 stair, people tend to exaggerate things. It was in  Huntsville, Texas. Huntsville is famous for having the most death penalty  executions in the US. The cops were dicks.
Wackest thing currently going on in skateboarding?
Over saturation of skating on Instagram.
VX or HD?
VX is more fun and looks cooler in my opinion.
Most memorable moment of your recent SF trip?
That TSpliff kid getting his shoes taken at Union Square.
Any Shoutouts?
Yeah I want to thank DOA, Northern Co, Steve Fletch, Chris and Ryan for letting  me stay on the couch. Select Skateshop in Houston, New Balance, Loophole  Wheels, Olympia Supply, and Fat Hog Legs. Peace.

================================================================================

Where are you from and who are your sponsors?
I’m from Sheboygan, Wisconsin. Sponsors: NK, Pull-In, Black Flys, Freestyle, and I get shoes from Emerica or Es through the homies.
Who was your first skate influence?
Seeing Natas Kaupas and Mark Gonzales in the mags.
Why did you move to New York?
I was living in Pacific Beach for a while, going to Pacific Drive skating every day, love that place. So much to skate and a rad scene fa-sho. That’s the place that really influenced my skating. So many rippers skating at the beach. I learned a lot there. I had always wanted to move to NYC so I got a one-way ticket here in 2002.  The cops are super chill here in the city. I like that a lot. And I like to party and get wild, so NYC is perfect for me.
First trick?
No comply. It has been my first trick each day since I learned it as a kid.
How does it feel to be a CEO of a skater run/owned company?
It feels good. It’s a lot of pressure at times, but we are 17 years and runnin’.The entire NK crew is rippin’ the streets tough as fuck. Nothing is gonna stop us.
How would you describe Natural Koncept?
Katch’s art is really the platform NK stands on.The crew is insanely talented and full of heart. All of ’em are skaters for life. I’m really proud to be a part of it all.
How did you end up hooking up with Lamborghini?
Just living in NYC and networking, I guess. I was lucky enough to be introduced to one of the top executives in the company, and we spoke about Natural Koncept. I showed him some of the graphics, and he was impressed by Katch’s artwork. He was really interested in a USA tour we had coming up etc. I followed up with an email the next day. The follow up is key. And that’s where it all began. We did a collaboration deck, and they helped the last few tours…pretty cool fa-sho.
The much-anticipated third Natural Koncept video is dropping soon. What should everyone expect?
A skateboard film with a focus on life. I’ve been at home editing for three weeks straight. Just eating pasta, smoking, and sleeping.
You have been known as a world traveler. Where have you been?
I’ve skated/explored 39 countries in my life. Just returned from Medellin, Colombia. That place is epic. Killer spots and rad skaters. San Paulo is endless. Montreal is fun. Tokyo is rad fa-sho””lots of marble. Osaka is off the hook, cool natural tranny spots and packs of 15 skaters hittin’ the streets together. Eastern Europe is wild””Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland. Once in a lifetime style spots. Athens is gritty and I loved it. Paris is beautiful and I always enjoy skating there. Basically, I’m just gonna keep trying to explore the world, experience new culture, and enjoy the endless architectural gems to skate.
Favorite city?
Lisbon
Favorite to skate?
Tough one, let’s go with Stockholm.
Shout outs?
Katch and the entire NK crew.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller
What’s up Remy, how’s your day been?
Day’s been good, just trying to rest up here in Paris. Went to see the physio today, also went to see some friends.
Are you injured right now?
No, I’ve just been on a lot of trips nonstop and my body’s paying the price for it now, just some small pain here and there.
You do seem to always be traveling. Where have you gone recently?
Mainly around Europe. Went to Morocco, Portugal, and Taiwan for the last destinations.
Did you get to skate the new park in Taghazout?
In Morocco, yes. It’s so fucking good even though you want to enjoy the view more than you want to skate.
How’s the scene in Paris these days?
The skate scene is getting pretty big these last few years. So many kids that I have never heard of just show up at the spots. Also, there are more foreign skaters that just come and stay in Paris for a while, which I feel like wasn’t very common a few years back.
Do you think that having a central spot like Re
publique is helping with that? Here in the states it’s about as well known as Macba now.
Yes, it does change the game to have a central spot for sure. It’s more than just a skate plaza, there is a lot of stuff changing around the Republique neighborhood. It really became a meeting place for people because of its central location.
The
Carhartt
part
that recently came out was gnarly. How hard was it to get away with skating at the Louvre? Any encounters with security?
That one spot
is right in front of the entrance of the museum, so most of the time it was an instant bust. The last time we went it was pretty early in the morning, before I had to take my flight to the premiere in Berlin. I guess it worked out good with security because they weren’t too awake.
When you’re not skating what kind of stuff do you like doing?
When I’m not skating I’m mostly back in Paris taking it easy. I’ll go visit some friends, ride my bike, take pictures, and recently I got into rock climbing. There are also a lot of museums and exhibitions in Paris, so I try to go and see some art.
What sparked your interest in photography and what are some of your favorite subjects to shoot?
When I was younger, me and my crew had a little blog where we would publish photos and articles, everyone in the crew had a camera. That’s probably when I got interested in shooting photographs. Then the first skate trips definitely made me want to shoot more. I really love to shoot old people, and more generally, everything that happens in the streets.
What do you shoot with?
Right now a
Nikon FM2 and an Olympus Mju II
.
The Atlantic Drift series has been sick. How is it working with Jacob Harris and which episode has been your favorite to film?
I’ve known Jacob for a couple of years now, and he is a good friend so it’s been easy! I would say the Paris one has been my favorite piece to film since I had a few spots in mind, and had more trick ideas that I wanted to do.
How’d you first meet that crew?
I first met most of the boys here in Paris. Jacob and Tom Knox thought that I was called Lenny for a while, so now that’s my nickname.
When you’re not with those guys who’re you skating with?
In Paris I usually skate with my homies when they’re not all working. Usually Joseph Biais, Edouard Depaz, Val Bauer, Clement Bossard, and sometimes the Bloby crew.
What’s your favorite American city to skate?
So far New York.
Good choice. In general, what differences do you see between the scene in the states and the one in Europe?
I would say skating in Europe is similar to skating the American east coast¦really hard to relate to that west coast style of skating.
How many languages can you speak?
Four. French, English, Spanish, and Portuguese.
Where’s the best place to grab a beer in Paris?
This place called Chambre Noir is pretty cool. I also really like Chez Martin for its 4 euro pints. You can also get super nice food at those places.
What’s next for you? Any projects coming up?
A lot of exciting things happening this year, for sure. There’s a few more Atlantic Drift trips around the US and maybe a photo exhibition in Paris.
Thank you Remy.

================================================================================

Interview by Marcus Waldron
I got some questions here I want to get into.
Yeah man. As long as you don’t fuck it up, we’ll keep going.
I’ll try haha. What are you doing today?
I was getting my kid out for school at 6:30 in the morning and I’ve been talking to people in Europe since then. Trying to organize some information for shows I’m hoping to do in the next couple of months out there.
You’re planning some exhibitions in Europe and one in New York too, right?
I think we’ll get through the ones in Europe first because that way we don’t have to ship the photos back and forth. They’re all framed and ready to go. The whole show is set up already. The last one was in Barcelona. New York would be great too. It’s just difficult in the United States, people don’t care about art as much. They don’t have an appreciation or respect for it as much as they do overseas. And I’m not the type of person who likes to work with many sponsors. There are very few particular companies that I would even let associate with the work at all.
And you’re also working on a documentary right now?
That’s true. Yeah, I’ve been working on a documentary for some years now. I’m not a filmmaker. I just happen to be making a film. Covid really has put a big stall on it though. I’m going to hopefully finish filming in the next six months. That’s my goal, it’s all been done out of pocket. Me and my producer have been doing it on our own, total DIY. Never more than three people in the crew when we’re out filming, including myself.
Can you share what this documentary is about?
The tentative title is The Fuck You Heroes. It’s basically an examination of these subcultures that I shot over the years, based around the people who were in my first book, Fuck You Heroes. Why are these subcultures of punk rock, skateboarding, and hip hop still considered rebellious when a young person starts doing them? It’s kind of crazy to think that 30 or 40 years later when a kid tells their parents they’re involved in one of these things, they seem like they’re a rebel. And usually, that leads to some rebellious attitudes about stuff. I want to show where this all came from, and what these people who still inspire us were doing at the time. How did they get to be these icons of subculture? There have been some really shitty punk rock movies. Skate videos there’s no shortage of, but I want to examine it in a different way. Hip hop as well, there are some good documentaries, but I have a particular eye and my shit’s gonna look good. I want to show people that all skaters, punks, and hip hop people are not fucking idiots like we’re portrayed in most of the movies that are made. I think the way they’re edited makes our cultures look stupid, and I don’t respect that. I don’t appreciate that. In fact, I think those people are assholes who made all those films and make our cultures look bad. My goal is to realign everyone’s understanding of these cultures and show that actually a lot of these people are pretty fucking smart and are not fucking bums and idiots, are not violent, and really want to do good things.
When you started working at Skateboarder magazine, you were still in junior high, right?
You can’t say I was working at the magazine. I was making photographs and contributing them to the magazine, and I was considered the youngest staff member. It wasn’t like I went into work every day at an office. I was going to school every day and shooting photos after school, skateboarding, and listening to music.
You got a check after you sent in that first photo, right?
Yeah. That was fucking heavy duty. I was 14 years old, and back then, taking a picture was a lot more difficult than it is now, I’ll tell you that much. And it was with a borrowed camera, in fact. I think I got $30 or $40. It was fucking mind blowing. I got a full subscription ad in Skateboarder magazine, which was the fucking Bible back then. Very few photographers go into the office. I would get assignments or they would have me at a contest shooting, and my name was on the masthead. They were giving me film. After my first published photo, they were using at least one photo of mine every month, almost for the entire existence of the magazine. I’d say there were maybe two issues over the years that I didn’t have a photo in.
Did they supply most of your film from that point?
Well, yeah, they’d send me film whenever I needed it. Before that, I obviously bought my own film and processed it. And they didn’t pay for your processing at the time, they just gave me the film. So you had to be really careful, especially as a kid. I never shot a lot because you just couldn’t, it was expensive. Even though they were giving you free film you can’t shoot everything. If I was just shooting all day long, I would look like a kook. You gotta shoot to make it matter. You take a shot when it’s important but it’s correct. You don’t waste the film, you don’t waste the time. I never wanted to look like one of those fucking camera idiots. I never even called myself a photographer. You had to prove yourself just like they were proving themselves.
You started sending photos to Skateboarder and then how long before you started sending to other magazines or when did that happen?
I was sending pictures to Skateboarder all through high school, and even when I started college, it was all about Skateboarder. I didn’t want to contribute to any other skate magazines. There were only a few other mags and they were garbage and everyone knew it at the time. What happened was the skateboarding industry completely nosedived by 1980. Skateboarding started going away because skateparks became what skateboarding was, and then all of a sudden they started shutting down because of insurance and weird laws. So the skateboarding industry took an absolute nosedive and Skateboarder couldn’t even be supported by the industry anymore. There was no one to pay for the advertising. So they tried to keep themselves alive by putting other things in the magazine like BMX, cruiser bikes, skiing, and snowboarding. They did it for a couple years and then they switched the name to Action Now. They put in articles on these other activities, but the manufacturers just did not like sharing those pages with other sports. Independent trucks were the biggest rebel. They said, fuck this, we don’t wanna share a magazine with other activities, and they went off and started their own magazine. They started Thrasher. Stecyk and myself were friends with the people who ran Thrasher, even though at first they were always just jealous they could never be Skateboarder. But I started helping out Thrasher and I worked with them for several years. By that time I was in college and I started shooting music a lot more. Music was inspiring me, and with skateboarding it was much more difficult to be in backyard pools. I started shooting music, and since I cut my teeth on skateboarding photography, I think I was shooting stuff better than other people who were shooting music. I was able to capture the peak of the action, the intensity, and the character better than other people shooting music. And I had an aesthetic I had learned from skateboarding and from Skateboarder, how to make beautiful photographs. I was just more of an artist, even at a young age. My mom was a designer and I just grew up around that type of shit. So it was always important to me, not just to capture the moment. I fucking hate that word. That’s why I say I make photos. I don’t take photos, other people do. I make them. And it’s not to be pretentious, it’s just the work that goes into it.
Let’s talk about the My Rules photos zine. You did 10,000 copies of that. How did you make so many and how did you distribute them?
I was actually in the darkroom one night from 7:00 PM to 7:00 AM printing out photos for a book that was gonna come out on punk rock in Southern California that was being made by a publisher up in San Francisco. I was in the darkroom making all these photos of all these different bands and I’m realizing these fucking kooks up north are not gonna print all the stuff that I’ve just made. There’s no way. I’ve been dealing with editors for a couple of years at this point, and I realized this is not going to go the way I want it to. So I decided I’m gonna make my own zine. I went to Kevin Thatcher, who was the editor at Thrasher at the time, and I said, “Hey, could you guys help me make my own zine? I wanna make a zine the same quality as Thrasher basically.” And they said they would help me because I had helped them for years, so I used their printer. I based my numbers on what Thrasher was printing, and what other fanzines were printing. I knew that mine was only gonna be a one-time thing. It’s kind of like a fanzine/book. I’m not gonna come out monthly, I’m not gonna come out bimonthly. I didn’t wanna make it again. I just wanted it to be a one and only issue. And that’s what I wrote on the cover. At the time, Flip Side, which was the biggest fanzine in the country, was doing about 3,000 copies a month. And Maximum Rock and Roll was about 3,500, 4,000 maybe. And then Thrasher was doing 20,000, which is what they told me at the time. So I’m like, I’ll do half of what Thrasher does and a little more than double or triple what the other fanzines do, because I have confidence in what I’m doing. And so I made the zine with Kevin Thatcher, I laid it out with him, he helped me. He did all the cutting and pasting. This was before computers. Then I went up and picked up all my zines. When I was up at the bindery, they said, “How many are in the shipment that’s coming in?” And I said, “We got half of what Thrasher does.” He says, “This looks like a lot more than that.” I said, “Well it’s 10,000 copies.” He says, “What are you talking about? Thrasher only does 6,000.” So it turns out they were just lying to me telling me how many they printed.
So you accidentally printed more than them?
Yeah, I was like, “Oh shit, What the fuck am I getting myself into?” But it was too late at that point. We brought them all back down to my mom’s house where I was living. We packed 10,000 copies of My Rules into the room I was living in. It was floor to ceiling, half the room, and I started making advertisements. I went and brought them to record stores, and I put ads in Flip Side and Maximum Rock and roll, and I started getting mail orders. People would send me two bucks from all around the world. I’d get $2 or their equivalent. I had a PO box where I would go every day, and I could get my lunch money there. I’d get like $5 or $6 sometimes $15 in a day. And then I was also selling directly to music stores in Southern California. I would drop them off a box of 200 in my car and they’d call me back two weeks later and say, we need another box. And I would ship ‘em to distributors in New York and some distributors in Europe. I just did it all myself. That’s how it was done. And I sold 8,000 in the first 12 months. It was amazing.
And since then, you’ve made a number of really amazing books with different publishers right?
That was more than a dozen years later. I started thinking I need to do something next level, something special. I had this idea for the book, Fuck You Heroes, to make a real book out of this stuff before people forgot about these cultures. Because they were so inspirational and so important to me. By ‘91 no one was talking about Black Flag, or certainly not Tony Alva or Jay Adams. People weren’t remembering them, you know? And I thought, these are really important cultures and I know people care about them and I need to show people what was going on at the time. Black Flag and Minor Threat were all disbanded already, even the early hip hop stuff, Run DMC weren’t where they were. So I published that book myself, I published all my books myself actually until 2014. I was publishing all my own books for 20 years. In the beginning, we were able to make some profit. It was great. Fuck You Heroes was a huge success, relatively speaking. And then I started putting out other books, but costs were getting so expensive. Not only the printing but shipping costs, and the book distributors, and the way they would deal with us as an independent was very difficult. So I went to Shepherd Fairey, and he recommended his publisher, which was Rizzoli at the time. And I went to the world famous Rizzoli and they were really keen to help me out and to do something that I couldn’t do on my own. I said I’m a publisher, I know what the fuck this game is. If you guys could do something for me that I can’t do for myself, then I’ll make a book with you, otherwise, I’m just gonna find a way to do it myself again. They put out the My Rules book with embossed silver and black foil on the cover, and they kept it at a price that I couldn’t make the book. I couldn’t buy it from my printer at the same price that they were gonna sell it for. It was very important to me that the price point was as low as possible.
What do you think about the photos you see coming out right now from skating and music?
Well, I certainly think that there are a lot of photos now. And what happens when you get a lot of anything usually is there’s a lot of crap and you have to kind of sift through to find the good stuff. And that’s kind of how it’s always been. Nowadays there’s so much more because of digital photography and digital platforms. I think that most of the photography I see lacks the artistic feel that I like and the character that I need in good photos. Particularly the skate photos, because of the nature of skateboarding nowadays, most of them are taken with longer lenses as opposed to the wide angle lenses. And you don’t need a fisheye for skateboarding, in fact, people still overuse it. I use the fish eye when it’s necessary because I like to get close to the action, but also show the environment. You don’t want a fucking tight shot of someone in a dope place, you wanna see the place, you want to know what that trick is and where it’s happening. And in music photos, there’s some amazing stuff out there. The lighting is like you’ve never seen it before because digital technology is so sensitive. Some of it lacks character and artistry, but there’s some incredible stuff out there too. There are some people out there doing really, really great stuff, I have to say. I think that some of these people, because of technology, have much more access than I ever did to making photographs. The fact that I got so many good photos of some of these bands when I look back on it, I can’t even believe it. Some of these clubs were so dark, there were like two lights lighting up the whole stage and you had to focus in that! There was no automatic focus. I can’t believe we got so many good photos from back then, or that I did. I don’t like anyone else’s photos to be honest. Everyone has a good shot now and then, but most of the other photos taken during those periods are whack. But, you know, skateboarding photographers have always been at the top of the heap, because they’ve always dealt with architecture and need good timing, and the environment has always been a big part of skateboarding. So I feel a lot of skateboard photographers, some of them go on to shoot other stuff and it just makes sense because it’s such a good place to cut your teeth as a photographer.
Are there any skaters or musicians you’d like to shoot but never have?
Yeah, certainly over the years there have been people that I wanted to shoot that I didn’t get to shoot, even from the 70’s to the present. One person I really wanna shoot that I haven’t been able to, and I’ve wanted to shoot her for over four years is Alexandria Ocasio Cortez. I really want to do a portrait with her. Even though she’s world famous now, she’s someone who’s very inspiring to me and I’ve been trying to get someone to help me set up a session with her, but I’m not having any luck bro. No one has hooked it up. She’s so busy all the time and has so much going on.
I wanna see that photo happen.
But the truth is, everyone should work with people of their own generation. Young bands need to be shot by young people. People are living because of them. I met that kid, hate5six Sunny who’s a video guy and he fucking loves the music he shoots, you know. That’s what needs to happen. You need to be shooting your own generation. I don’t need to go back and do this. They need their own age of eyes and ideals to shoot those people. People who are shooting skaters, they should be the same age, they should be the same generation. There’s a woman who’s photographing, she goes by the name of Daggers_for_eyes on Instagram and she is obviously living the music like I was when I was shooting it. She has her own unique view and you can see it in the photos, and her stuff is fucking good. She’s got a lot of heart so I respect her.
Are there any photos you can think of that you really wish you got but you didn’t? Either they just didn’t turn out or maybe you didn’t have a camera or you weren’t able to take that shot?
Lots of times. So many. I couldn’t even begin to tell you brother. I never walked around with a camera all the time. I would take the camera to shows or to sessions when I wanted to shoot, but I wasn’t shooting every session. I only bring my camera when I want to shoot. Sometimes people invite me to a show and they’re disappointed cause I didn’t bring my camera. Well, what the fuck? I thought you invited me, not my camera. I remember being at a show when I was in high school at a club in New York City when the Rockats were playing. Rockabilly was a thing at the moment, and they were playing at a nightclub here in New York. Iggy Pop’s up on stage, then Phil Lynott from Thin Lizzy gets on stage, and Johnny Thunders from the Heartbreakers, and the New York Dolls get on stage. They’re all on stage together and I’m the only person there with a camera and I’m fucking just shooting photos. Iggy Pop pulls down his pants and takes out his dick. David Bowie is in the audience and I’m shooting as quickly as I can. I get through the roll of film and it never caught up on the spool properly. I shot like 37, 38? Like, oh shit, what the fuck? And then I checked the other side and it never went through the camera properly. So those are some shots I missed, and I learned a valuable lesson. Whenever I load my camera to this day I look at the spool on the left hand side and make sure that it’s turning around.
Do you have any last words or advice for anybody trying to get into making photos?
Don’t do it if you’re not really into it. If you don’t love what you’re shooting, stop wasting everyone’s time. Don’t become a photographer because you want to be a photographer. Become a photographer because it’s essential to your life. Just like when you create music, it’s something you have to do that you can’t live without doing. That’s essential. That’s it. It’s something that you feel a responsibility towards doing, otherwise please don’t bother me. Don’t waste everyone else’s time. Don’t do it just to make a living. Do whatever you do because you love doing it and it’s vital to you. And then sometimes your art will become vital to other people. Your work will become important to other people. If you’re doing it for any other reasons, just to get paid, or become famous, just give up now please, so you don’t pollute the atmosphere with your crap.
Check out more of Glen E. Friedman’s work, at
www.BurningFlags.com

================================================================================

Interview by Sean Bendon
Photos by Jon Mecca
You were born in Venezuela and moved to NYC when you were a kid?
Yeah, the capital Caracas. I moved here when I was five, but I was raised in New York. I moved to Queens and kind of stayed here the whole time. I got my citizenship and everything. I’m not illegal or something. We moved to Woodside because my grandmother was there and then I kept going East. I went to high school in Forest Hills, now I live in Kew Gardens. Maybe in fifty years I’ll end up in Montauk if I keep this trajectory going.
Is there anybody you grew up with in the New York skateboarding scene that you now see blossoming?
I remember Karim Callender, he’s from Jackson Heights. He’s like the face of Queens now. That dude’s super rad. I knew him when he was super young so it was cool to see him grow into the professional skateboarder that he is now. I looked up a lot to the FlipMode guys who then turned into the Bronze dudes – Derick Ziemkiewicz and Shawn Powers. I ended up becoming really close with a lot of those guys. I modeled some stuff for Bronze a couple months ago, it still kind of trips me out. Rob Gonyon took me under his wing for a while. I remember he would give me his old 5boro boards and Converse or Nike that he was getting. Those dudes kind of paved the way for a lot of us out here. There’s some really heavy names in Queens that I think people kind of forget like Luis Tolentino, Karim, and Marcello Campanello. Rob Gonyon and Rodney Torres too.
Do you have a brother that skates?
Yeah, I have a twin brother. Not a lot of people know that. We’re fraternal so we don’t look alike and that makes it a little easier to kind of hide it. His name’s Alfredo. I still live with him. We’re cool. We’re total opposites.
I heard earlier this year you did a 50 mile hike. What was the spark?
I started just hiking around the Hudson. Like small day hikes and then quickly got addicted to it, almost like being so bad that you want to get good. I bought a bunch of books about the Appalachian Trail and all these people’s story on it. It goes all the way down to Georgia, but I think New York has ninety miles of it. Fifty miles sounds like a lot, but you break it up into three days and it’s like fifteen to twenty miles roughly a day with a thirty pound bag. We did it in three days and two nights and it was raining pretty heavily. Three of my friends came with me, so that was cool, but we definitely did not know what we were getting ourselves into. It wasn’t challenging or anything, but by the end of it we were ready to rip each other’s head off. It is scenic though, and I have so much gear now.
Do you have the poles?
I do have trekking poles. My buddy Tim got me into them. We used to make fun of him but they actually help a lot.
You got a personal trainer?
Yeah, this is something new for me too. I got a gym membership and then a personal trainer to kind of keep me in tip top shape. It’s rough sometimes. It’s like a commitment that I can’t back out from. I’ve got a year contract with that guy and he’s been putting me through hell. I do feel like I can kind of pop a little higher over some stuff. But the idea is to be able to take the impact. As you get older it gets a little harder to jump down stairs and handrails. I find that stuff super fun. I feel like there’s a big health kick in skateboarding right now that people are jumping on. I didn’t think I’d ever in a million years be going to a gym and talking to this trainer and learning all these exercises, but my gym does have a sauna too, so…
You work at the Vans space in Brooklyn. How did that come to be?
I feel like I’m gonna be putting Jersey Dave on the spot here a little bit. It went from just going to events and showing face and then I would talk to Dave about health kick stuff that I was into. I think he asked around about me and I guess thought I was a pretty hardworking individual. He’s a good friend, so I want to make sure he’s good. Like, we’re friends before he’s my boss, you know what I mean? But it just kind of happened one day. I mean you get offered to do something like that, it’s like can you say no?
You’ve been doing some kind of medical assistance program too?
My mom is a psychiatrist, so she got in my ear about doing something in the health field. I’ve actually grown to be quite fond of it. We’ve done classes with blood drawing. It’s a little stressful sometimes. There were a couple days where I was doing it in the morning and then showing up to the park at night. But, you know, it’s so draining, like… I’m having my blood drawn. Maybe it’s not the best to go work an eight hour shift after. I think I have a month left and then I have to do a 200 hour clinical internship. It’ll be interesting the next couple months to see where that leads me. My mom wants me to go to NYU really bad.
How was being a counselor at Woodward?
It’s probably one of the reasons I know a lot of people that we run into in New York. Just meeting some of my favorite pros, kicking it with them, swimming in random rivers and lakes, a bunch of camping. Jake Johnson has a house not too far from there we would go skate a lot. Those guys were always super nice to all of us. My friends Matt Goodwine, Will Sickles and Chuck Cameron would always invite me into little gatherings or whatever. Maybe that’s what also inspired all the hiking, just being in Pennsylvania for so long and realizing I love nature. I was even there during covid one year and that was probably the most interesting year to be there. It was so bizarre. It was like half the capacity, but if you were going to be quarantined anywhere, that’s the fucking place to do it.
What’s up with your photography?
I picked it up a long time ago. Me and Jersey Dave both shoot with the Yashica T4, which is nice. It’s just such a cool camera, but now it’s so coveted. Someone was telling me Kim Kardashian did a campaign with it and that’s why the camera got so expensive. There’s some things you can capture on film that you can’t get in digital. And there’s a little more to it, you have to know the aperture and the shutter speed and you can’t see it right away. So you got to put a little bit more work into it. I shoot a lot with expired film. You get these really cool colors and grain that you just can’t mimic with digital cameras.
Tell me about the new video you’ve been filming for with Roti (Stephan Singh).
Stephan is doing another video and it’s coming along pretty nicely. There’s a lot of other characters in the video. It’s all Roti’s friends and a bunch of people from Queens. It’s going to be pretty good. It’s nice to be working towards something that feels like it’s gonna have a good response. I feel like everyone’s just been filming internet skating. It’s so strange. I don’t keep up with that stuff. It’s nice to have a goal for something that’s gonna come out in a more permanent or larger format that’s not just on Instagram. It’s like a fucking circus on Instagram right now. We gotta step back.
Shoutouts?
Smokey, Max, Adam, Gio, James, Jon, Calvin, Jersey Dave and the Vans family, Lick skateshop, Tenant skateshop, Bronze 56k, all my friends from Woodward, Jahrew my personal trainer, my mom and dad, and Dakota, the best dog that I looked after a few weeks back.

================================================================================

Interview by Lonnie Shamblin.
Photos by Stephen Knight.
Brandon Novak first stepped on the scene in 1992 with the release of
Powell Skateboards video “Chaos.”
Since then Brandon would go on to appear in several early 411s before becoming completely consumed by addiction in 1993 at the age of 16. It wasn’t until 2003 that long-term friend Bam Margera would reach out and pull Brandon from the gutter, but Brandon’s success would further fuel his addiction in unimaginable ways. Now seven years sober, Brandon has rediscovered his passion for skateboarding and spends most of his time helping those in need overcome addiction.
What’s life like for Brandon Novak these days?
Life for me is kind of like how it was always supposed to be. I’m reliable, dependable. I’m a good friend, good employee. I’m a man of my word, but most importantly, I try to help as many people as I can.
When Bam asked you to move to West Chester and be a part of the show to help you get off heroin, what did you think would happen?
I knew that with this opportunity I could really reinvent myself, recreate myself and change where I was at and the direction I was headed in. Although I really wanted to do that, my internal self was just screaming, “You’re never gonna be able to do it, you know you’re gonna fuck it up, you’re about to burn yet another bridge.” That was the hardest thing about it all, knowing that despite wanting a new way of life so damn bad, my disease was so powerful that I was expecting to fail at that mission.
How has sobriety changed your life?
I could go on for hours about how it changed my life but more importantly it changed everyone’s life around me. My mother gets her son back, my employer gets his employee back, my employees get their employer back, my cats get their father back. The whole world just does better with me being sober in it.
What do you say to others that feel like their past dictates their future?
I’m blessed because today I’ve learned that my defects, the very same things that were killing me, on bag, one bottle, one pill, one needle, have now become my assets by way of my story being so public and me being so transparent with it. Skateboarders, musicians, artists, addicts, and alcoholics, primarily we are defiant by nature. We hate authority and we’ll never conform. So what I like to do is share my story in a form of attraction rather than promotion. If someone out there sees my story, they’d say, “If he can do it then I can do it” and then they’d pick up the phone to call me and at that point the terms of their contract will forever change because it’s now become their idea.
You started Novak’s House a sober living facility focused on transitioning people from inpatient treatment back into society. What are some long term goals with that?
I opened Novak’s House with the vision of one day becoming a resource that any man looking to transition into sober living could utilize. Where money would never be a deterrent. I opened the first house with 12 beds a year and two months ago. Today, I have three houses with 42 beds and I believe everyone deserves a chance. So again, seeing who I was prior to sobriety and the following I acquired during it, has allowed me the opportunity to raise donations and resources to provide countless amounts of scholarships for anyone in need.
You’re about to release your first full length video part in over twenty years, how did that come about?
What I’ve learned recently is that skateboarding is the only thing that truly allows me to be in the moment. It shuts off my head which never stops screaming. It stops time and it takes me back to the happiest times of my life. So at 43 years old, to be putting a full-length video part that I worked really hard on, flew to different countries and went all over the United States for, put in a lot of time, a lot of preparation, a lot of thought into, it’s one of the things I’m most proud of and I don’t say that lightly. This was some of the best times of my life. There’s nothing more that I love and miss than jumping in a van with like eight dudes and just living in the moment.
What was it like filming a full street part at 43 years old?
Honestly, it was one of the best times of my life mentally and physically. My body was like, “Whoa, you need to calm the fuck down.” But with that being said the days were filled with skating and the nights were spent getting massages.
What are some of the highlights from the road while filming for this part?
Mainly just fucking with Lonnie who is the filmer/driver/team manager who has to deal with everybody and gets the shortest end of the stick. Sharing hotel rooms, skating all day, watching clips at night, and just learning how to accept ten different personalities each trip.
Where can people watch the part?
It’s coming out online early online early March, follow @hdvideomag on Instagram for more details.
What does the future hold for Brandon Novak?
I just want to be able to continue skating and never take it for granted.

================================================================================

Ryan Mettz is a wildly productive individual. He is constantly painting, tattooing, shooting photos, skating, filming, making zines, and more every day, and he just had his first solo art show at Muddguts in March. It was no surprise when I saw that he was spending this time in isolation cranking out darkroom prints from his film archives. We caught up with Ryan to talk about how he’s spending his time, and the stories behind some of these photos.
What up Ryan, how are you doing?
I’m alright, trying to keep myself busy.
Where have you been isolating, and since when?
I’m at my parents house in western Massachusetts. They’re stuck in Florida so the house was empty.
What do you miss most about the city? Besides the homies.
Blue park, Indian delivery, riding my bike around, just being out doing stuff all day and night if possible. Kicking it and stuff like that.
What are some techniques you’ve been using to find peace during this crazy time?
The best thing to do is just chill out and not think about how long this is gonna be for.
So tell me about this darkroom and your printing process…
I was able to borrow an enlarger and a bunch of other stuff from some friends out here and set up a dark room in the basement. I brought negatives with me from the last few years so I went through all the black and white stuff I have and tried to choose which ones to print. I always wanted to have a chance to spend time printing stuff because for me, that’s the ultimate way to actually make a photo book or something fully analog. Like from actual prints, not just scanned negatives, to me that’s the coolest way. It really takes a lot of time though, it’s easy to get caught up in there for seven to ten hours a day, even more. I don’t have anything else to do so I can just wake up and do it all day and again the next day, which is pretty cool.
When were these photos taken? What were you shooting on?
Mostly in the last two years. Everything is in New York, Los Angeles, Puerto Rico, or Copenhagen. Some stuff is on a Leica M6, but mostly a Nikon Fm2. I like fisheye with flash the best, but usually I’m just trying to be out of the way of whoever is filming so a lot of times it’s with a long lens. I have way more color negatives than I do black and white but I’m not really sure about printing color in the basement.
Got a favorite from this batch?
Well the one of Andrew grinding the down flat down is pretty cool because me, him, and Max were driving around in his car, combing through random neighborhoods looking for spots and he found that rail. We went back on Sunday with Johnny and the weather was not very supportive. He did it in like four or five tries without falling hard and it was sick. I would love to get another chance to take the photo again because I have some frames where he’s in the middle of the rail and it looks sick. I was thinking it would be sick going over into the down but he launched and then 5-0’d down, which was also beast. It’s  just a cool memory discovering it and then seeing it go down, start to finish.
Have you been getting into anything else to pass the time?
Not much, just painting. Going on some drives and exploring some stuff in the woods if we can. It’s me, my partner Saki, and my brother Beans chilling everyday. We also have a dog and two cats around which is cool.
Are you dying to do a tattoo or are you appreciating the break?
I’m not dying to do a tattoo but I am starting to miss it and definitely missing the shop. I’m always pretty focused on painting, skating, and taking photos anyways so it’s cool to have time to only work on photo stuff.
Have you been able to skate much?
I’ve skated a lot in the driveway by myself, my brother is here but his ankle is hurt so it gets pretty boring.
Any words of wisdom you’d like to share with everybody? Recommendations on staying sane?
It’s pretty good to smoke weed and everything, watch skating, whatever you’re into. I think it’s good to just skate flat and chill if you can.
True. We gonna make it?
It’s hard to say.

================================================================================

photos and interview by Joel Meinholz
Why did you move back to Miami?
Well I moved out of Florida at 26. Did LA for four years, straight into three years in NYC. Covid there made me feel a little uneasy. There were some upsides to it skate-wise, but by that point I was already thinking about moving. Time moves so fast there, I could blink and easily have been there ten years. Maybe I feel like I overstayed my welcome in LA and wanted to leave NYC on a high note, like, still loving it. I left Halloween 2021 with pretty much no plan. Floated around for a few months and Miami just made sense. There’s just so much potential here. I saw the skate scene growing again and wanted to be a part of that.
Are you working on a Huf part?
I am. A few months after moving to Miami, I started filming with Zoogie (Justin Stout). It’s been so refreshing to be back in a familiar place. Finding new spots, re-finding old spots, just doing what we gotta do to make something shitty not be shitty. Working with what we have.
How has it been skating with the Andrew heads and seeing the new generation?
It’s been awesome, I didn’t know them before moving here, I was just familiar with them through Andrew edits. Besides you, I’m the old guy in the crew. I think we all push each other in different ways and it works well. It’s so cool seeing the younger generation do their thing and represent where they’re from. Florida has bred some wild skaters through the years, and let’s just say that it’s not going to stop.
You’ve been on sessions with really amazing people. Any that stand out?
Dylan impossible 50-50 cheesecake hubba was special to see in person. Countless Mark (Gonzales) sessions. Skated SF with Busenitz a good amount. Ellisa, Ramondetta, Keith at Federal banks. Watched a BA sesh at hubba hideout. There’s so many. Good times…
How would you describe your approach to skateboarding?
That’s a good question. I really just try and do tricks that would feel cool to land. Then I think what spot would best suit that trick visually, and be possible on. Ideas kind of just pop into my head every once in a while. It could be at four in the morning, or it could be standing there staring at the spot. But generally I just try and do what feels right and could translate on camera to the viewer as fun and natural. Also I really like when a trick is just done well. It could be almost anything, as long as it’s done right.
You’ve been part of some remarkable projects and collaborations. Is there one that holds a special place in your heart?
Gnaughty
was a pretty special project to be a part of. I may not have realized it then, but later on down the line I did. Not only was the crew amazing, but the format of how we made the video was so different at the time. That seemed to be a super serious, higher budget style of filming era for skate videos. I think they chose the perfect ingredients to make a video that is actually relatable for people that watch it. We just passed around digi cams with taped on little fisheyes. We did less serious tricks at less serious spots. It was just fun so then it was fun to watch.
Your skateboarding career has taken you to various parts of the world. Any locations or skate spots that have left a lasting impression on you?
My first time out of the country was to Istanbul, Turkey. We somehow talked Keith (Hufnagel) into flying me, Plunkett, and a photographer there to shoot a lookbook of the next drop of clothing. It was insane. We ended up staying in a cave hotel in Cappadocia at one point of the trip. I guess the rock is soft enough to where the whole town is carved into these rock formations and there are hot air balloons floating all over the sky. There were zero obligations, we just went to this beautiful place and drank and walked around wearing new Huf gear. Since then, skating has taken me all over the world. I am beyond grateful for the places I’ve gotten to visit.
Are there any specific artists, musicians, or fashion trends that inspire you?
I guess I’m pretty inspired by the shoegaze genre of music. The swirly distortion, the reverb. Everything is kind of washed together making one dreamlike noise. It’s kind of hard to put into words.
Do you have any other passions or hobbies that you enjoy pursuing?
I like to collect and sell vintage clothing. It’s kind of just a fun side thing I’ve been doing for a few years. I’ll pop into some local thrift stores once or twice a week. Sometimes I’ll go to the Goodwill bins, where you’re digging through huge piles of unsorted and probably unwashed clothes that you pay for by weight. So when I’m not skating, I find myself doing that. It’s like a never ending treasure hunt. I think it’s good to let the mind get away from skating a healthy amount. It’s perfect for days that my body is just too sore to skate. Also, there are days that I’ll map out a few thrift stores way out in some area that I’ve never been to which is a good way to look for new skate spots. I’ve definitely found a few things on those days so it’s a win win.
What’s the best part of your day?
Lately the best part of my day is the time that I give myself to just relax. Like time for me before I really start my day. Whether it’s listening to a chapter of an audiobook, doing some breathwork, microdosing mushrooms, riding my bike, meditating, swimming at the beach, or making a smoothie. I’ve just been trying to set aside time for me. I’m 35 and feel like these things help me function better day to day. Whatever it takes to keep me skating.

================================================================================

How old are you and where are you from?
I’m 19 and from Lansdale, PA. Right outside of Philly.
What’s skating like in Lansdale?
It’s pretty dope, we’ve got a good scene with some people, they all shred. And we got a little DIY park called Wedgewood, it’s pretty sweet.
What’s up with Wedgewood?
It’s an old place, been around for awhile. Built by some older dudes that’ve been around, still skate sometimes. It’s a really sick spot, it’s basically all ledges.
You guys build anything yourselves or was it all the og’s?
Most of it has just been there. Recently we tried to build some stuff but it all just gets destroyed right away by the township. It’s weird they’re cool with whats there and they don’t fuck with it, but they don’t really let us build stuff anymore.
That’s lame. Do you remember yr first kickflip?
Oh fuck yeah dude, I don’t know if I remember my very first one but I remember when I first learned em, I would set my feet up retarded as shit. I went to Wedgewood and just sat in the corner of the park doing stationary kickflips the whole time I was there.
Do you believe in Aliens?
Aliens”¦ Fuck yeah, I mean definitely. I don’t know what kind of aliens but there has to be some.
Who’s yr favorite person to skate with in Lansdale?
Aww shit, my favorite person out here to skate with? I can’t even choose, it’s just unfair. Every one of the Wedgewood homies. I try to go down to Philly at least like twice a week, and visit my friend Andrew Meyers. We always go shred and film together, it’s always fun. Usually Muni, haha.
You ever go on any big road trips?
Not like really long ones, but the farthest I ever went was last summer Andrew and I went down to Florida for two weeks. And then this past summer we went out to Montreal for like a week.
Rad, what were you doing in Montreal?
We basically just checked out the Dime website and looked at all the spots they had on there, and tried to hit as much as we could get to in a week. It was right before that contest, but we had to leave the day before, so that was kinda lame.
Bummer. What’s the worst pillow you’ve ever had to use?
What’s that?
Like a pillow, that you sleep on.
Oh the worst pillow! Ohhh, shit. Sometimes I’ll just sleep without a pillow, but I remember one time I was sleeping on the floor at Andrews apartment recently and I thought I’d be fine without one. But halfway through the night I just took my shoe, and just used that.
That’s the best thing you can use man.
Yeah a shoe, really anything can work as a pillow.
You ever broken any bones?
Never really broke anything as far as I know. Just stupid injuries that last a while, like sprains and shit.
What do you think the coolest spot you’ve ever skated is?
Man”¦ I would just have to say Love Park was the coolest spot. Definitely the coolest spot I’ve ever been to. It sucks it’s gone now, it bums me out to think about it. But you just gotta deal with it, go to Muni you know, making due with what I have and what everybody has now. It does suck but there’s still good spots around Philly and shit.
Whats the worst haircut you’ve ever had.
Oh fuck dude”¦ When I was growing up my parents always had me rocking a rat tail, like short hair with a long rat tail. It was the worst haircut anybody could have, its like a weak mullet. I was so young I don’t even think I cut it off, I think they finally realized that it sucked. And we were the only kids! Me and all my brothers, we all had them.
Damn that rules. Did you have yours in a braid?
Nah I wish I did, that would have been a little better at least. It was really weird”¦
Is anybody hooking you up with product or anything?
Ambler Skateshop hooks it up for sure, and they got me hooked up with Sk8mafia and Jslv, out on the west coast. They’re sick I really like their stuff a lot.
You go to school or anything?
Yeah I just started my first year at community college near my house, save the money you know.
You got any big plans for 2017?
Well shit dude, I’m trying to skate. Save some money and not spend it all so I can take some good trips. I guess a good road trip is my only plan, and it’s not even planned out yet. But I’m definitely trying to go somewhere new.
You got a job?
I got no job right now, so I’m literally just spending my money that I did have saved, which is not good. But it sucks, you can’t really go to school, skate, and have a job you know?
It’s a balancing act for sure. You ever skated vert?
Not really, lately I’ve been trying to get more into that shit. Cause jumping down shit hurts your feet and you just gotta have a good variety. Keep yourself well balanced.
What do you like more pussy or money?
Pfffttttt, oh dude pussy for sure. I hate money dude, I wish I could go my whole life without money, I wouldn’t want to have to go my whole life without pussy for sure. If money wasn’t real, I’d be perfectly fine without the idea of money. But if pussy wasn’t a thing then I would just be like, somethings missing. You know, you need that in your life.
Yup. You voting for Trump or what?
Haha, I don’t fucking know man. I honestly don’t like either of the candidates, so I’m considering just not voting.
This is yr first time being able to vote isn’t it?
Yeah, and it’s like ‘this is what I get?’ Are you kidding me, I thought this would be cool, you know, make a decision. But they’re just both clowns, there is no decision.
Got any last words for anybody still reading this?
Shit, just keep on shredding and having fun.

================================================================================

What’re you guys up to?
What’s up man? Our boy Josh Foisey is here, we’re at his house doing the final review for the video.
Who all filmed and edited the video?
Myself, I’m Ryan, Brad Larsen is next to me, we run the company. And Josh, he’s our main video guy. He’s an expert, he also skates. He has a part in the video too.
You three all will have parts?
Yeah, me and Brad will kinda share a part. We’ve got skateboard tricks in it. It’s nothing compared to these guys. They’re jumping on rails and shit. I’m chillin on that now.
Where are you guys based out of?
We’re in Boston. I don’t know if you guys know Boston but I’m in Somerville.
Where was the video filmed? Was most of it around Massachusetts?
Yeah, pretty much all over New England. Some of our crew is from near New Hampshire, close to the border of Mass and New Hampshire. John and Cole are from Ipswich, Hunter is from North Andover, and we’re in Somerville. We traveled around in and around Boston and all the surrounding suburbs. We took trips to New York, Albany, Philly, we went to Vermont, Connecticut, Rhode Island, most of New England.
What was your favorite part of filming the video?
Brad: My favorite thing was going to Philadelphia, also Albany was pretty sick. In Albany Nick Gavotsos joined the team. Nick was like the veteran on the team. He’s pretty seasoned. It was his first team trip so he went pretty hard and stacked. Everybody was vibing off that. We partied pretty hard. We warned all the young guys to not trash the hotel room, and then all the older guys got smashed and trashed the hotel room. We woke up in the morning. There was blood on the bed because Nick had been getting bloody eating shit all day. There was pizza and what looked like puke on the floor. It was a good bonding experience.
I saw you guys have some new boards out? I saw Dylan Goldberger has that graphic?
We’ve been working with Dylan since the start. I worked with Dylan at a previous company. Obviously we love what he does with Coda and other companies. We wanted a Dylan graphic from the start. The latest series that we did is “The Iconic Spot.” We’ve got three artists. One is Adam O’Day, he’s an oil on canvas artist. Dylan did the Brooklyn Banks, it’s fucking sick. We had him do a mirror image of the Banks with the water. We try to use water imagery with most of our graphics. Through the back catalog you’ll see a water theme throughout it. We’ve always worked with Dylan but we wanted to hire some other artists too, and for them to kinda represent their spot. They all had some kind of connection to skateboarding. The third one is from San Francisco, he does Embarcadero. That’s Matthew Stansell. He did a painting of Pablo Ramirez after he passed. He’s super cool and he rips on the board. It was to pay homage to these spots from our era.
When is the video dropping?
The 15th of November. We’re hyped to get it out.

================================================================================

I first met you 10 years ago when you moved from Okinawa back to Albuquerque, what were some of your early influences in skateboarding while in Japan?
Before moving state side it was hard finding up-to-date media, but every chance I got to find a video or magazine I would jump on it. Some of the earlier videos like Maple Blackcat with Jerry Hsu, Chad Knight, good ol Shortys Fullfill The Dream, also the Gil videos with P-Rod and Koston, the whole team! Those videos back then had made a pretty huge impact on my life. It didn’t take much for me to be influenced by skating I was just a fiend and wanted to find anything and everywhere I could!
Ah the VHS days. What do you like most about the skateboarding in Albuquerque?
Albuquerque! Man there’s so damn much about this place that many have yet to learn. Albuquerque is one of the few places that is bright, sunny skate weather about 320 days out of the year! There are endless ditches throughout the town, there are very good hearted people out here too! The scene is amazing and the Burque will expand in years to come!
What about the time you had to nearly run over a meth head at a spot? How’d that go down?
Oh man! So it all started with me wanting to skate this rail about 6 years ago. The apartments were known for their sketchy action and shit still is to this day, but I had got maybe three tries in and knew I could get it. All of a sudden one of the tenants living there wasn’t having it and the situation started escalating. Some dude in a trench coat was trying to take homies camera from him, and the more I waited the more these meth heads would come out of their caves. Next thing you know me and a few homies are surrounded by these meth heads so we decide to dip. As we are leaving I exchange a few words with one of them and the guy comes running full speed with his fist clenched to hit me, my first instinct was to throw my car into reverse you know. Complete self defense and the guy happened to get in the way as I was backing out and got his leg crushed under my front tire and hit the ground. I freak out, yell at the dude that he shouldn’t have ran at me like that and just took off before anything else hectic could happen!
Wild! Word on the street is you caught a roadrunner? Never seen that before…
Yeah that is right, although I wouldn’t say I caught him. The dude was injured laying in the middle of the road, cars were coming and I couldn’t stand back and let that go down. I scooped him up and laid him down out of the way. I’ve always wanted to pick one of those dudes up!
You and everyone else in the desert. Anyone you’d like to holler at to wrap this thing up?
Hell yeah g, shout out to my lady and family for putting up with me, all the homies out here killing it and on the grind everyday in the Bu. Keep killing it everyone, as well as with you mang for shooting these killer photos! Also want to thank the homies at BZ skateshop, Null wheels, New Balance, iNi Clothing, and Theeve trucks. Thanks for keeping me rolling homies!

================================================================================

Interview by Smalls.
Who is Joe Piff?
I met Joe when I was in middle school, maybe 6th or 7th grade. The crew back then was myself, Joe, Trivs, Blake, etc. One story is we were driving up to visit some friends in college at Cabrini and we headed south foran hour by accident before we realized we needed to be going north. We turn around to head back, miss an exit, and he whips his Monte Carlo (rip) around and stops in the middle of the grass highway median, and he decides to start smoking weed out of his popeye corn cob pipe, just chillin there. So then we get to Cabrini and we walk into the dorm, and theres this girl crying about how her boyfriend cheated on her or something. Joe just lights up again and blows smokeon her and starts screaming the lyrics to a backstreet boys song, the one where it’s like “keep playing games with my heart.” I dont think I’ve ever laughed so hard in my life man, it was great.
So is that who came up with your nickname, Quilt?
Yeah Joe came up with that one. At the time he was really into putting the letter S in front of his words and changing people’s names to Slangela or Slake. I was in the back of the car complaining about something one day and he told me shut up Swalt. But then it turned into Swilter? Then Swilter turned into Quilter then Quilt. Everyone thinks I’m soft as fuck, I can’t believe it’s been going on for so long, it’s ridiculous.
I don’t think an 8pm bedtime/three beer max is doing anything to change that reputation. When the three of us lived together on Ridge & Ogden, a pack of 5 year old terrorists roamed the block. What’s one of your favorite memories there?
So we lived in this shitty, blue, two story house and it sucked, and everything around us sucked. All I know is that there were at least 30 little terrorists and I was scared of them. We all pitched in together and got them a complete setup, and that just further pissed them off because only one of them had a board and not all of them. They would bully me and anyone I invited over. They carved their initials into my pickup truck. I took a nice photo of two of the terrorist leaders along with the guy who lived below us, who accused me of being a white devil if you remember.
I do remember that, as well as the game where they threw rocks at cars. Give us something gnarly you’ve witnessed at Love.
I guess the worst thing I’ve witnessed is seeing this kid across from the gentlemen’s ledge and thinking “wow he is really hungover.” just lying there with a can of Four Loko next to him, and finding out he died later that day. But besides that nothing really sticks out, mostly just bums pooping on the walls, bums fighting and shit like that. I’m probably forgetting something but whatever.
Okay let’s wrap this up. Laura Palmer, Audrey Horne, Donna Hayward, or Shelly Johnson?
Shelly Johnson. No actually flip a quarter between her and Audrey Horne..but probably Shelly or the log lady.

================================================================================

Where’d you skate this weekend? I saw you went somewhere?
I met Nick (Tyrrell) and those guys out at York Park and then went to this weird backyard set up I’ve never seen before, in York. It’s pretty sick, not done perfect but way better than I expected. It was fun.
Where are you from?
Bethlehem, PA.
How would you describe Bethlehem for people who don’t know it?
Post-industrial, and very proud of it.
Do you remember what made you start skating?
Tony Hawks Pro Skater. I feel like everyone who started skating in like 1999 – 2001, in one way or another you started because of one of those video games. I beat the game enough times and I was like I’m gonna start skating.
When did you move to Philly?
I hit the year mark in May. It’s been good. I feel like this is where I live now. It’s funny to relocate in your late 20s but yea I’m stoked.
How did you get into making furniture?
I kinda fell into it at school. I was going for art education and I was starting to have doubt if I really wanted to teach, and I was kind of behind in my teaching classes anyway. We had this little furniture department at my school and I took a couple elective courses, got really into it and it worked it out to where I took those classes to make full semesters, and that’s just what I got into.
Do you remember the first thing you made that you were proud of?
The first thing that actually came out the way I wanted it to was this rocking chair, which now, I would never ever make something like that. I felt like I saw the vision through to completion you know.
What was the last thing you built at 9th and Poplar?
It’s sort of like a volcano into the landing and then it’s a quarter pipe at the end. Actually we might try to build something there this weekend.
Do you remember the first DIY project you were a part of?
Very first might have been the Easton dirt spot which would have been like 2004. That was like Po and Emery and those guys, it was like you know liquid nail, and cinderblock ledges type thing. Ray Gurz and Dave Hansen poured a quarter pipe which was like the shittiest thing in the word. No direction, no forms, just the lumpiest thing. The first thing I probably did on my own was once again pretty much a cinder block ledge on a bank at the old ditch in Bethlehem, the 278 ditch. That thing was there for one summer then got washed away when hurricane Katrina happened.
People might know you for the curved parking blocks, how did that come about?
I was all stoked about trying to build DIY spots and well I was just coming out of art school, i was all thinking of how you can make a DIY spot but not just a straight forward like put concrete up to a barrier but do something a little different with it or make it actually like a functional sculpture same way as furniture is. so I was like yea wanna use parking blocks and if I’m gonna make a mold why just make the same parking block I’ve always seen. I was just starting to get used to rubber, so at first I though I could just make a straight parking block mold and bend it, and make it curved, then I was like I’ll just make a fuckin curved one.
You also made mini curved ones to help fund the real ones right? I still have one on my desk. They were like paperweights.
I used to get like 1 DM a week on instagram from some fingerboarder somewhere sometimes it’d be an avid fingerboarder, sometimes it’d be a fingerboard company, I got one this week this dude actually ordered one from my website was like ”˜you ever think about making these more for fingerboarding’ I basically just said, ”˜no but people can use my stuff for whatever they want to, I don’t really care’. Not my scene. It’s funny because the whole fingerboarding thing, I get so like aggravated about it, I just always think miniature things are cool, like sales samples, or models of some cool building, honestly it must be how architects think of skateboarding. I’m sure the thing among some architects is like ”˜we can’t make any kind of embankment because skateboarders are always gonna skate it’. It’s funny but at some point I have to be like, I’m all about making functional things and people find function in it. I just can’t help but think it’s the corniest use of function.
Have you made any other variations?
I made this one, the dumb nickname is the “parking blockness monster” its like a dragon tail one. That one I was like this thing is just a sculpture, I don’t think its gonna work at all. You wouldn’t skate it all day but I mean you can jam through it.
Is there a style for the furniture you make?
For a while I was saying mid century modern, but like anything I think some titles get kind of tired. It’s tough to say too because at this point I’m making a lot of custom stuff, that depends on what the client wants so if you’re going strictly off my portfolio it kind of caters to what the client asks for basically but if I was gonna talk about the shit thats in my head that I want to make its more contemporary, which all that means is that its being made now, it doesn’t mean shit really. Its a tough question to answer.
Whats one of you’re favorite skate trips?
One that will always come to mind is one I went on to Paris with 3 of my best friends.
Why does that one stick out?
Because we were homeless in Paris for 3 days. My friend (Whalen) said he had a place to stay with this girl he knew but he told her there was 2 of us instead of 4 of us. So when we got there she was doubtful, and then her roommates were like nah not happening. Something was going on that week and no hostels were open at all and we just had to fend for ourselves. It was gnarly then finally we met a dude who owns a skate shop. We were just bullshitting people at the skatepark cause we were sleeping outside for I think 3 nights, getting over it, just thinking ”˜should we go back to Holland?’ We were trying to reach out to other skaters and finally a dude was like ”˜you know what I’ve took trips to the US where people put me up everywhere I went. So I’ll stay at my girlfriends house, and you can stay at my little 1bedroom apartment,’ and it was sick. It was a sick trip on top of everything. Just thinking of 3 nights where we skated all day and then had to scope out our little urban camping spot is pretty funny.
You just slept in parks?
Yea actually every night we just slept in pretty much parks or gardens of apartment buildings. The 2nd night we stayed in a little spot right by the Arc de Triopmhe. It was like pretty high real estate.
Did you study furniture in Holland?
I did an internship after I finished school which basically meant that I went out there. I knew If I want to do something where I’m not making money, this is the only time to do it. Thankfully I did it, I would have never done it otherwise. but yea right after school I went and did this internship in Eindhoven, Holland for six months.
Did you skate a lot while you were out there?
Yea for sure. It’s fun, just relaxed. For instance in Eindhoven the spot to skate is city hall which actually just like Cecil. Theres some ledges but they’re really hard to skate, there’s perfect flat ground, actually kinda same tiles as Cecil. The city realized it’s like a big open plaza and the only people who would hang out there are the skaters, so a few years before I got there they had this project where they put ramps there. Like imagine municipal just being a sanctioned skate park. Everyday there’s always people just drinking beers and skating, it was fun as hell. The indoor park in Eindhoven was sick. All the indoor parks in Europe are amazing. The indoor park in Eindhoven is five bucks to get in, no helmet, full bar, it was sick. They would have sick parties. Big ass parties, where it wasn’t just like strictly skaters, parties where your friends who wouldn’t skate would end up there just cause it was a big party.
Who is the road crew?
Ha, I think the real answer to that question is the only member of road crew is Shiner.
Who’s not the road crew?
I think Shiner would say anybody but Cris Berner.
Last trick you learned?
Hmm Kevin and I have been skating that slappy curb at Poplar a lot, we’ve just been learning slappy tricks.
Favorite skate park?
Either Plainfield CT, or Westerly, RI.
I know you’ve done some work with Cons, including one of those Cons Projects, how did that come about?
That was all through a chance meeting with Russ Pope, in Brooklyn. When he started working for Converse he just reached out to me about doing first the Cons project and then doing other projects. It’s been sick. Everything they ask me to do is something I would’ve never expected, it’s really fun.
Favorite video part?
Im trying to think of something not so played out. Mike Rusczyk in Art Bars, (foundation), and Jason Adams in…all of em, he’s my all time favorite skater probably.
What’s up with the birthday projects you try to do?
Damn you like got inside my psyche on that one. Well for the past few years i’ve been working, I feel like I’m always working for other people and stuff. I always have ideas for things I want to do but don’t always get to them because, you know, I pay bills with stuff that I do, and its important to get other peoples stuff out there. so usually around my birthday I try and have a project or something I’ve been thinking about for a while, and try to get it to fruition by my birthday. One recent example I made the Rickety Ramp Racer The soapbox car quarter pipe. That was like the one that I really stuck to making it by my birthday and actually pulled some late hours to do that in time for that.
I think that thing is so sick. I wanna make one. Wanna meet up and race?
Hell yea.
Any last words for people trying got learn how to make stuff, either to skate or furniture, whatever.
I’d say quantity leads to quality, don’t worry about messing up because you will mess up, that basically a better way of saying just go for it. but people always say quality over quantity which is true, but when you want to get better, you want to do something, make your goal to make a lot of and it and you’ll end up with something just through practice.

================================================================================

Were you born and raised in the Raleigh area? What do you think of the skateboarding scene there? How would you describe it to someone who has never been?
Nah. I was born in Wurzberg Germany. Came to the US at 3 years old. Been here ever since. Military family. Raleigh is a real cool place all around. The skate scene is always evolving. Today it’s a frontside flip tomorrow it’s a switch 540. Unlimited spots unlimited love, there’s plenty to do here, you name it. Real split though. One or two words of persuasion to the right cop and you might get a extra 30 min on that 12 stair.
What is your personal goal in skateboarding? Are you someone who aspires to become one of the bigger names or are you just out there to have a good time? Or Both?
My personal goal in skateboarding is to go hard or go home all day every- day. That’s what keeps it fun for me. Right now, I’d say I’m just having fun with this whole thing. For me this is a can’t stop wont stop type of thing. Ya heard me?
What’s your setup right now?
8.25 endless grind NC champs shop deck, Mob grip, Theeve trucks, thanks to the OG Dan Murphy, and Reds bearings.
Who or what has helped you out the most in skateboarding?
GOD. Footage is a very necessary piece of documentation, like proof to show the realness. A photo is a moment frozen in time forever. Like the look on your face, the placement of the truck locked in a perfect smith grind or a bail and you have the “oh shit!” face.
What are the top tracks on the Josh Weathers mp3 player right now?
Everything Wiz Everything Ross Everything Curren$y and that’s just today!
All right, give me some shout outs, and then I’ll let you get on with your day.
Mom and pop. Skate Jawn, Carolinaskateboarding.com Endless grind skateshop, Ford, Benton, Preston, Piff, Coleman,Tobias, Post22, up top and down low, and everybody that has ever ripped through the streets.

================================================================================

Interview and photos by Chris Gurinsky.
So here we are at Hemway House. What is this place?
The Hemway House has been a skate house in SF for over 10 years.
Why did you choose to come to San Francisco? You’re an East Coast kind of skater, at least seemingly. How did you get out there?
I think it was just the classic, visiting the first time and staying for a week and then extending my ticket for another week. I had already lived in and around Baltimore City for however long and I just needed some change. I came out here to try, and a closet opened up in the Hemway for super cheap. So I got a job, and just ended up staying. Within the last few months I’ve gotten a bedroom, now it feels like I live here that much more. I don’t know if it’s permanent.
It’s working for you?
Just loving it.
Hell yeah. So you’re not from Baltimore?
Born on Long Island. Mom’s from Queens. Dad’s from Long Island. Grew up on Long Island. Lived there for eight years or so. I started skating in New York for sure. Those are the earliest memories in the backyard.
Did you ever skate New York City at that point?
It was kind of more local backyard type shit. We moved to Maryland when I was 8 years old and I kept skating. And we’d go back to New York to visit our families and my mom would drop us at the Brooklyn Banks.
Who’s Sean Powderly?
Sean is my older brother. He’s about seven or eight years older than me. He’s fully the reason why I got into skating. I remember looking out the back door, watching him and my cousin skate the backyard and just thinking, “Damn, I want to do that.”
Did somebody get him into skating or did he just find it on his own?
I think our cousin was the first one to get a skateboard. A couple of our cousins skated a little bit before he picked it up. Eventually my mom bought me a WWF skateboard from the grocery store. But that was pretty much how it started. He still skates, he fucking rips so hard.
How did you get involved with
Theories
? Did somebody specifically reach out to you?
Dude, it was super random. I think it was Taylor Nawrocki who had shown some of my footage to Josh, like my part in the
Threads
video. He was involved with them around that time and I don’t think we’d ever met or anything, but Josh hit me up and was like “Hey man, I’ve been seeing your skating or whatever. You should come skate with us. We’re going to do a pop up Theories shop in Philly this upcoming weekend.” I was maybe 19 or so, I drove my truck up to Philly, parked it by Jake Todd’s house for the weekend,  skated with them, and the ball has been rolling ever since. That shit always meant a lot to me. It’s an honor.
Do you have a job here in the City? Also I hear you’re making bagels now?
I’ve had a couple of different jobs when I first got out here pre-pandemic. I was bar backing in the Mission District at this cocktail bar, and then Dustin Eggeling was getting a bunch of skaters PA work, and that was really cool. The pandemic hits and yeah, I’ve been rocking unemployment for a minute now. But on the side hustle tip, me and Logan started making our own bagels from scratch because it really feels like there is nowhere to get a good bagel around here, none that were comparable to back home. I haven’t tried selling them yet, but it’s definitely something that we’ve been scheming on once we can get the formulas more dialed in. Right now, I’m just so tunnel vision, maintaining, paying rent, and skating the city.
Sum up the last year or so of your life in a sentence.
Try to appreciate every day and tell your friends you love them.

================================================================================

What’s going on, Colton, what are you up to? Tell us a little about where you grew up and what it was like skating there.
Hey, I just got back from a nice day of boarding in the East Bay, new spots and good friends. I grew up in Burlington, Wisconsin, a small town in the southeastern part of the state. We have almost nothing to skate in my hometown. Most of the time we would skate homemade rails and boxes. Living in a place like that made me want to discover new landscapes and head to the West Coast.
What initially brought you out to S.F? What are some pros and cons of living here?
I have always wanted to live in California. San Francisco just seemed like a nice fit. We have good weather almost all year and plenty of new and old spots to skate. It’s also nice to just grab you board and explore, no need for a car. There are also a bunch of talented skateboarders to film. The only con that I can think of is that it’s illegal to skateboard anywhere in the city, I have always thought that was strange, being such an accepting place.
How’d you get into filming? Did it start with skating?
Not a particular thing got me into filming, just started pressing record and fell in love. I’ve been skating for 16 years now, filming just seemed like a natural progression.
How long ago did you pick up a camera?
5 years ago.
What was the first camera you finished a project on, and did you have any influences when you were first starting?
My first camera set up was a Sony VX-2000with an mk2 fisheye lens. I still own it to this day. Nothing really influenced me in the beginning. I just turned the camera on and hit record. I wasn’t really a filmer, more the guy who had a camera.
And when did you realize that you were good at it?
I wouldn’t say I’m good at it yet, but I have a basic understanding of how it works. I realized I could make something enjoyable to watch after
January Through June
came out in late 2009.
Top 3 skate videos?
Mouse, Penal Code 100a,
and
Welcome to Hell
.
How’d you get linked up with SLAP?
My friend Justin Carlson recommended me for the job, thanks buddy.
What exactly do you do there?
At the moment, I just make the
San Francisco Treats
. It’s a really great place to work, and I would love to get involved with more projects at SLAP.
Tell us a bit about “Three Days a Week.”
We had a nice crew for that one, all of the guys ripped. We took six months to film and put together a short video, and it’s the last video I made before getting the job at SLAP. I would love to make something like it again. It was the first time that I felt any pressure making a video, but I’m happy how it turned out.
Who was in it?
We had a star-studded cast consisting of Charlie Pravel, Jeff Hill, and Pat Moran. Also, a friends section with a bunch of homies.
I tagged along with you guys for a San Francisco Treat mission and it was a very heavy session. Take us through a day of filming for one of those.
Well, I meet up with the guys around”¯noon, pick an area of the city to explore and shred it. On the weekdays we stick to neighborhood spots and hit up schools and downtown areas on the weekends. I’m just happy to have such a amazing group of friends and such a beautiful city to skate in.
What’s your opinion on the VX versus HD debate?
I think that it
‘s a rather pointless debate.
It
‘
s all skateboarding, as long as you
‘
r
e
filming it well, it shouldn’t matter what format or camera your using. ”¯Filming in HD brings a very quality image
with massive amounts of detail.
I can’t think of anything HD takes away from skateboarding.
”¯”¯
Do you have any techy tricks to making HD look a little more “real” like interlacing or anything like that?
Nope, it already looks real. I don’t think that anyone has shot interlaced since Nike’s
Debacle
. ”¯You just have to find a sweet spot between blending your footage and still making it look fast.
I’ve heard you’re a secret ripper behind the lens, what’s your take on filmer footy?
Filmer
footy has a time and a place, unless you
‘
r
e
Mike
Manzoori
.”¯
What does the future hold?
”¯
I just started wor
king on San Francisco Treat #20. I
t
‘
s going to be a good one. We
‘
re taking four months and making a short video with a couple of parts. ”¯I hope to take a couple trips and explore some new terrain
.
Any shout outs?
Family and friends.
Thanks.

================================================================================

Do you remember the first time I took you street skating? If not the first, any interesting memories come to mind from your early adventures in the streets?
Of course I remember the first time. We skated some factory spots by your parents’ house. I think you filmed me do a kickflip off a loading dock into a bank. You made me do it twice because I beamed the camera, glad I got that lesson early on. Then later that night I ollied a 12 stair. One interesting memeory was skating Roosevelt School with Fred Gall and Tim O’Connor. I hadn’t had many interactions with pros yet and Freddy did that gnarly ollie into the second bank on the hip that’s in his Inhabitants part.
Tell me about the time Geo Moya left a used board in the trash at the skatepark and you sold it.
Geo would come to the park every so often usually at night when there was less people. One rainy day he came and ended up throwing his board away. I think I sold it for like $10 but I don’t think I knew it was cracked until all was said and done. Haha, sorry to whowever bought that.
What does it mean to
“
Deli Roll” a pair of shoes? Has this ever happened to you?
Deli roll is when you put a piece of cheese under the insole of a shoe in hopes it wont be found until your shoe has an unbearable smell. I got a box of Converse shoes when they first came back to skating from Chase Whitaker. I got deli rolled. Luckily I got two pairs of shoes and had given a pair to my homie so I guess I unintentionally deli rolled my homie. Sorry Trent. Fuck you Chase.
You and Dick Rizzo grew up skating together. Is it safe to say you guys had a little friendly rivalry going on back in the day?
Dick started coming to our local park Drop In, and he was probably 11 and I was 14. He got good fast and stuck through all the bullying and bullshit we would give him. As we got older we got competitive and I think we still are but it pushes both of us to do our best. If no ones pushes you it’s hard to further yourself.
You went to school for photography. Tell me about some of your favorite things to photograph and why? Do you see yourself pursuing a career in photography after skating?
I have a BFA in photography from the School of Visual Arts. I like to photograph my friends and I enjoy urban still life as well. I definitely have put the camera down lately because I’m trying to focus on skating, but I still have a job in photography today. I will probably shoot more when I travel or when skating isn’t working out.
Luke Malaney or Keith Denley?
Both in 2007.
Name the top 5 things you love about New Jersey.
Family, taylor ham, blue cans? crust, the smell.
What’s it like living with JP Blair? Do you remember the time when you tried giving him a black eye?
JP is the best roommate; he’s very good with the flow and he’s pretty clean too. I don’t think we’ve ever had an argument about out apartment. He was bullying me. I was like 13 and he kept pushing me into a bush. Every time I would try and stand up I would get pushed back down. Once I got up it was on. I punched him right in the eye as hard as I could. Then he said he hoped it would turn in to a black eye.
Tell me a crazy traveling story.
I was in Jasper, Tenesee on a a Quasi trip and we stopped on our way to Nashville to skate this house bank at a firework store. Gilbert started to try and break this fence a bit so he could try this ollie. The owner of the firework store came outside and saw that. He returned quickly with a shotgun in hand. So we’re at the bottom of this huge bank trying to pile in the van before the unthinkable happens. Luckily we raced out of there unscathed.
What were some of your favorite skate videos as a kid?
I think one of the first videos I saw was La Luz so that was definitely a favorite, also Yeah Right came out right when I started skating so that was pretty influential.
Favorite Ted Barrow trick from Lurkers 2.
I would probably have to say line at CIA ledge with the fakie flip and the switch back tail shuv it. He’s wearing Ipath grasshoppers and a 5 panel hat. I think the outfit sums up that time period well.
Top 5 pizza spots in Ny/Nj.
In no particular order, Carmines, Joes, Prince St, Totonno’s and Spumoni Gardens.
People started to know who you were after your part in that Bronze video. How did all of that come about?
I moved into my first apartment in Brooklyn and was skating with JP Blair a lot. I ended up meeting Pat Murrary through him and I think after skating with him regularly and PJ showing him footage we would get he was like I want to make another video and have you and dick in it. It came pretty naturally.
Before getting on Quasi, you skated for Hopps. What was it like calling an east coast legend like Jahmal Williams to tell him that you quit?
I would never call to quit a company. I went over to his apartment to get boards one day and expainded everything that was going on. He had always told me that if an opportunity arose and it made sense and would further my carreer to take it. I think he was a bit bummed but he was also hyped for me. He still gave me boards that day. Love you Jahmal!
Tell me a good Justin White story from when you guys used to go out filming together.
One time Justin wanted me to skate this rail in the town his parents lived in but he had lost his license and I was like 14 so I couldn’t drive there. I ended up skating there which took over an hour because it was a couple miles away. I think I got two tricks on the rail and ollied my first street gap that day so it all worked out haha. Thanks Justin.
You grew up in Jersey pretty close to the New York State border. What were some of the best parts about growing up and skating in that area?
Growing up the skate scene was pretty big in my area. I was fortunate to meet awesome people with good ideas about how skateboarding should be done. We also have a lot of great spots in the area some that were destinatons for tons of skaters. It also was easy to access NYC and I would go all the time, sometimes with no plan.
Didn’t your dad compete in one of those Ironman triathlons? Do you ever see yourself doing something like that?
Yeah my dad is a triathelete. He did a full Ironman last year at 55. Maybe I won’t be doing Ironman but hopefully I’ll be able to skate still at that age.
What can we expect from Josh Wilson in the near future? Any projects in the works?
We’re working on a Quasi video that should be out in early 2018. I feel like I’ve been filming for it for a long time, everyone has been. So I’m excited to finish the project. Other than that we’re working on another Bronze video and I think that should be out early 2018 also. Keep your eyes peeled.
Last words?
Just want to thank anyone whose helped me get to where I am today.you know who you are. Peace and chicken grease.

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis.
Photos by Chris Morgan.
Alright DJ first question comes from long time reader Sam Zentner, asking “what the fuck is your deal?”
Not sure how to answer that question for Sam, but I think my deal is I came here from Connecticut about eleven and a half years ago just to kind of skate and get away from the things I was doing there. Not really getting anything done, messing up in school, didn’t really have any direction. Ended up going back to school, found out I was interested in English, took that to a career in teaching and that’s what I’ve been doing for the last three years now. Before that, I was working in an after school program as a skate teacher that you got me the job for.
So is it true you’d be nowhere without me getting you that job?
I think it’s safe to say that I wouldn’t be where I am right now.
What were you doing in the after school program while you were a college student?
I did a lot of different things. I was doing just your basic after school homework help, leading recreation time out in the yard, your skate lessons, playing outside with the kids, and taking them on field trips. Did some morning programs as well with some little kids who needed somewhere to be before school started, so did activities with them in the cafeteria. And all the while I was a student teacher at the school with a 6th grade English teacher there, Mr. Johnson, getting my credential requirements out of the way.
So now you’re teaching middle school. What’s the best part about being a middle school teacher?
Best part is you never really know what to expect. The kids are at a point in their life where they’re filterless. They have a lot of opinions that they want to share with the world and you always hear something new everyday. It gets crazy and hard sometimes, but in my years working with kids, middle school has been my favorite age to work with.
Do you only get to skate one day a week?
Right now that’s been the regular routine. Every Saturday I get out and skate with my homies whether they’re going out in the streets or chilling at a ledge spot and getting a good session in.
Would you recommend being a school teacher to a kid today?
I would recommend it if you want a job where you can genuinely leave feeling fulfilled and happy. If you’re into that kind of thing. If you want to make a lot of money, have more financial stability, teaching may not be the route for that.
Why do you think everyone thinks it sucks in Connecticut?
Because it does. No, I don’t know, I mean I think people have this idea of what Connecticut is. I’ve heard people say it’s a private school that everybody went to, is it even really a state? You know? That’s not really my experience of Connecticut.
Give me a skate tourist pitch to come to Connecticut.
Definitely worth it to come check out New Haven. There’s a lot of really cool street spots. A lot better than Hartford, which is the capital. There are a lot of cool spots in Hartford, but New Haven is just a way cooler vibe. Similar to a mini New York City and home of the best pizza in the world, Pepe’s Pizza.
What’s the last movie you cried to?
Holy shit. You know I just watched this documentary with my students recently about this guy who’s an undocumented immigrant and just his path on trying to advocate for other people like him. Yeah I teared up a little bit in class, the kids noticed and it was pretty funny.
San Francisco is a really diverse city. So do you feel any type of way being a white dude trying to guide these kids?
Yeah definitely sometimes. I try to be aware of everything I say and the different experiences of all my students to not put anybody in an uncomfortable position. I definitely have to be really careful about how I form lessons and the discussions that we have, but overall I feel really comfortable. Once you get to know the kids and they understand your style, you gain a mutual respect. One thing that’s great about my school is that it’s so diverse that there isn’t much segregation. Everybody gets along together. There’s so many great advocates at my school for all cultures, genders, and all identities of any kind. It’s really nice being at a school like that.
What’s the weirdest shit kids are doing now that you had no idea about when you were their age?
Vaping, definitely. Just certain things that when I was a kid I wouldn’t have been aware of. The internet is weird. We didn’t have our phones, or our phones didn’t have access to what they have access to now, so it’s just them being exposed to all sorts of crazy shit that they can find on the internet that I wouldn’t have been aware of as a kid. Just like weird sexual stuff, and all sorts of lingo, and you know all sorts of crazy TikTok shit they’re exposed to is kind of weird.
I’m sure. Okay, I’m done. Let’s bomb Twin Peaks.
Sounds good to me!

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller. Photos by Thomas Goldman.
What are you up to today?
I’m chilling, just made some coffee and getting the day started. Waiting for people to hit me up to go skate.
With the Black Lives Matter Movement in the streets and the protests against police brutality going on, how are things in Richmond?
Honestly it’s been pretty insane to say the least, but in a good way. I’m psyched to be out here witnessing all that stuff. I feel like it’s weirdly almost the epicenter. There’s definitely a super crazy divide here. A lot of super liberal people in the city who are out in the streets, but near the monuments dudes are just driving around with confederate flags out and guns waiving. It’s definitely super unsettling. Kind of tripped out to see what’s going to happen in the near future. It seems like tensions are pretty high.
Have you seen anything really gnarly in the streets these last few weeks?
Yeah for sure. The first night was insane. People were on one. Cop cars getting burned, busses getting burned. They were trying to burn down the museum of the confederacy. It was definitely a whole thing. I think stuff like that needs to happen or people just won’t pay attention.
Who is the best member of Bust Crew and why is it Ty Beall?
Haha I was fully going to say Ty! He’s a funny guy, he’s always cracking jokes. He’s the man. He’s always getting people revved up to skate, just doing little challenges and making everybody laugh constantly. Definitely a good person to have around.
What about the most fried?
Shit, probably me honestly. I think I may be the most fried member of Bust Crew. I think Will (Rosenstock) would attest to that as well.
Describe Jon Rowe in 5 words or less.
An absolute legend. There’s not much more to say, he’s the absolute sickest.
How’d you first get linked up with those dudes?
I grew up about 10-15 minutes south of Richmond, so I was always coming up here and would run into them. I started skating for Venue, and ever since then we’ve been out every day pretty much.
I know you recently left WKND, can you explain what happened with that?
Yeah. I guess if people are wondering, I personally needed some change. I’ve been getting boards from WKND since I was 18. I still have so much love for those dudes, Grant and all those guys. But it was at a point where Sully left and Evan left. That was kind of the bridge between the older and younger guys. After that I felt pretty isolated, I guess for lack of a better word. It was time. I wanted a change. When some of my boys weren’t there anymore it just had a different dynamic.
What is the difference between working on a project like
Death Dance
versus working on one like
Gospel
with Will Rosenstock?
Well, as far as
Gospel
goes, we would just drive everywhere, city to city along the east coast. There wasn’t a crazy amount of pressure so it’s more of an organic process. You’re also not attached to a brand, instead it’s just like “these are my homies, I can do what I want and skate what I want.” It’s not that you couldn’t do that with a company like WKND or filming for
Death Dance
, but when there’s a company and more money involved it gives it a little bit of a different vibe. It’s just different to film with the people you grew up with as opposed to a team setting.
Which video part has been the most fun to work on?
The most fun one would definitely be
Gospel
, as far as videos that people would know. I filmed other video parts when I was younger with my buddy Levi, and those were obviously the most fun because we were young and didn’t care, but as far as ones people might know I’d say
Gospel
for sure.
East Coast or West Coast?
I lived in California for a little under 3 years, but it’s East Coast until I’m dead. I love it so much out here. Living in California you didn’t have seasons and you had to deal with traffic all the time. It’s definitely a change of pace, and I don’t think I’m necessarily that type of person. The East Coast is definitely more my speed.
Who is a skater that isn’t being hooked up but deserves to be?
There’s so many. There’s this kid out here named Toby Bennett from a little mountain town in Virginia that nobody knows about. He’s getting some footage with those Melodi dudes, but he’s somebody to be looking out for for sure.
What’s it like to skate some of these confederate monuments that the people are taking down in Richmond?
It’s been amazing. In a weird way, it feels like you’re a part of something. People there like watching you skate it because they know you’re not just skating it, but that it’s something much bigger than that.
To me it looks like an expression of art being used to protest. You’re bringing down this monument using your artform, in the same way artists have been painting messages of resistance on them.
Exactly. I think people see it for that and not just as an opportunity to skate something that hasn’t always been skatable. It’s much more deep-rooted. We all agree that these monuments are shit.
If skateboarding were to end right now, what would you do?
Damn, I’ve actually thought about that a lot with Covid and all that stuff going on, everything is so fickle. I’d probably try to do some handywork. I’m pretty inspired by all the dudes out here that are making it work. They’re working hard jobs and skating when they can. It’s really inspiring.
What do you think we as humans need to keep in mind moving forward to progress humanity?
I think the main thing people need to realize is that your perspective is not THE perspective. You have to see things from other people’s points of view. When that starts to happen so will change. Your perspective is not the perspective of everybody.
Anything that you want to add?
Shoutout to everyone at Venue, Deluxe, Huf, Vans, Bust Crew, and Richmond. Black Lives Matter, that’s it.

================================================================================

Watch the full video by Steve Lancello here
.
Interview by Zach Moeller.
How long have you known Steve and when did you first get involved with this project?
I met Steve in 2017 while I was injured. I started filming him actually. We were working on a video for Fairman’s Skateshop. After that we just started getting out more and filming in Philly and New York when I moved to Brooklyn.
How long did you spend filming for the part?
About three years ago we started filming for it. Slowly people were getting more footage until it looked like a video that would have full parts.
What’s the difference between working on an independent video like this versus filming for a project with a sponsor?
Filming for a brand I usually have more spots in mind that I want to skate, but with this video I mostly skated the in between spots I normally might not have planned on skating, which kept it feeling pretty natural.
Any good stories from the time spent filming for this part?
Taking a trip to D.C. in January. We slept on the skate shop floor. I don’t think the heat was working either haha. Celebrating Thanksgiving at Applebee’s with Sam McKenna and Steve was funny. Sam shot the 50-50 around the corner on a rail that was in the mag a while back and later that night we ran up the Applebee’s gift card for some turkey and margs.
Whose part from the video are you most stoked on?
Jake Coleman is so good at skating and hasn’t had a part before, plus he had to deal with a few injuries while filming for it, so it’s rad to see his first part come out as the first part in
Wealth
.

================================================================================

What is your name?
Josh.
Where are you from?
Planet Earth.
How long have you been skateboarding?
20 years.
What inspires you on a daily basis?
Life.
Can you explain what “Wonders around the World” is?
First and foremost WAW is for the children.
We are an international and independent non-profit organisation. We are a group of skateboarders, workers, architects, engineers, contractors, and entrepreneurs who have joined forces to manifest safe and free places to skate worldwide.
What led you to embarking on this mission?
Nothing makes more sense to us then doing this. We should not underestimate the power of skateboarding.
Where has “WAW” built skateparks?
We founded WAW the 1st of January 2019. Before that as individuals we have financed and carried out builds in places such as Syria, Iraq, The Maldives, Myanmar, Ethiopia, Morocco, Bolivia and Nepal.
A lot of the places “WAW” has worked are pretty rough and maybe only have a small skateboard scene, if at all. Where does “WAW” aim to build skateparks?
We aim to build in places where it’s highly needed and appreciated. Places where it otherwise would not happen.
How does “WAW” differ from a more localized skatepark building company that most people are familiar with?
We have some of the most skilled people in the world of skatepark building, who volunteer to make these things happen. We have a clear mission that goes beyond any kind of personal or business interest. We aim to be building strong partnerships with everyone else on this mission.
“WAW” is like an international collective, can you name some of the key players that help keep the gears turning?
As individuals we represent companies like Grindline (Ryan “Peabody” McWhirter), Glifberg/Lykke (Rune Glifberg), 5th Pocket (Sloan Palder), Dreamland (Joey Martin), Alis (Albert Hatchwell), Vans India (Atita Verghese). Just to name a few.
Is there a specific project that sticks out to you as a great success over others? Maybe the construction went smoothly, or the appreciation from the locals was overwhelming?
Every one.
Being a not for profit group, what motivates “WAW” to keep going?
We do not need motivation in that sense to keep going. There is nothing that we love to do more than this. Right now only half of the worlds skateboarders have access to safe and free places to skate. Our mission is quite simple, to make skateboarding accessible to everyone in the world. We are not going to stop for decades to come.
I’ve worked with you a few times, in a few countries and what goes down on our job sites is something indescribable to many people back home. Is there a specific pour or night of work that left you thinking, How did we pull that off?
I mean it is incredible to see what humans are capable of when you join forces and work together for a common goal. So again, every time I do this, I am impressed to see what we can pull off together.
There are a lot of nonprofits that provide different things/services for places in need internationally. What is it about skatepark construction that led you to using it as a platform to promote positive change?
Again, we should not underestimate the power of skateboarding and every single aspect of us.
It seems like one of the driving forces of “WAW” is involvement. Whether it is women, locals, children etc. “WAW” strives to create a diverse group of individuals that take part in every aspect of each project. Why is this important to you as a group?
The thing we need to do as human beings is work together, progression cannot be made if we separate. Skateboarding has the power of bringing people together. We would like to show that no aspect of skateboarding is for a chosen few. Everyone has the force – Yoda approves.
How do you get approached for a specific project? Do you often reach out to people in a place you might want to work? Or do people/places wanting a skatepark generally reach out to you?
Both.
Aside from creating a totally unique concrete skatepark to ride, what else do you think “WAW” provides for the people in the places you’ve worked?
We aim to give the locals the feeling that they are just as big apart as us in making these things happen. We aim to build strong partnerships with locals and organisations who can provide healthy systems for the children and the future of the skateparks.
What’s next for “WAW”? What projects do you have coming up in the future?
Right now we are constructing Syria’s first skatepark with SOS children villages and Skate-Aid. After that we will go to Iraq (Kurdistan) to extend the Suli skatepark we built  with Make Life Skate Life a year ago. After that Peru, Hungary,  and then Jamaica. We got a large amount of projects coming up with a lot of beautiful people.
Whether it’s making a donation or wanting to come work, how can people get involved with “WAW”?
There are many ways people can get involved. Everybody is welcome to contact us.
5 year goal for “WAW?
Waw is for the children, so we are all in. The more we can manifest and the stronger bonds we can build, the better.
If people would like to find out more or get involved with Wonders Around the World, check out
www.wondersaroundtheworld.org
@wondersaroundtheworld
on instagram or email info@wondersaroundtheworld.org

================================================================================

Interview by Milo Cole.
Photos by Sam Cole.
When did you start skateboarding?
Oh man, that’s a hard question. I started when I was ten years old.
When did you move to San Diego?
I was born here!
I’m in first grade, do you remember any funny things from first grade?
First grade? Hmmmm…
Yesterday my friend downloaded Minecraft on the school computer… I started laughing. Alright, what’s your first spons…..
Sam: Wait a minute, you didn’t even let him answer the question!
Oh yeah…
Let’s see, I tripped walking up the stairs and got a black eye the morning before school started and was in the nurse’s office all day.
What was your first sponsor?
My first sponsor… Umm I don’t remember.
I was thinking it would probably be OJ.
Yeah probably OJ.
What’s your favorite ice cream?
Rocky road, and chocolate chip.
My favorite is cookies and cream.
That’s good too.
Alright, when was the last time you ate a vegetable?
Yesterday, I had asparagus.
What’s your favorite holiday?
Christmas of course. You get pres…
Oh but hold on I missed one. Who is the best San Diego skateboarder?
Ollie Ese.
What’s the best Tony Hawk Pro Skater game?
Number 3.
I agree, I agree. Do you have a memory from the Great Skate?
I got a lot of memories from the Great Skate! What’s a good one that’s appropriate… It was so fun, we went down a hill that was sooo steep, but we went down really slow because the went the opposite way. We also went up a hill once without pushing in the Enchanted Forest.
That’s amazing! You beat my world record of not pushing. What’s your favorite sport besides skateboarding?
Uhh, snowboarding. You gotta try to snowboard Milo! You would like it.
I been thinking about it! Next Winter! What was your first Nintendo game?
Bomberman.
I really want Tony Hawk Underground.
That one’s fun. Tony Hawk Underground is kinda like the warehouse (in Seattle).
When did you first meet Josh (Snyder)?
I first met Josh… Oh man it was a long time ago. Sam when did we go to Borrego Springs?
Sam: Maybe like 2009?
Yeah 2009is, around then.
Are you older than the original Nintendo?
Haha no, I’m not older than that. Do you know when that came out?
It’s like the ’80s. What are you doing right now?
I’m watching Breaking Bad with all my dogs. (dog’s barking) I have three dogs on the couch with me right now.
I hear them! When’s the last time you went to the beach? Probably last summer?
Naw I went like two weeks ago!
Sam: Yeah San Diego you can always go to the beach.
What’s your favorite skatepark in San Diego?
Memorial.
How much do you like Owl’s Head?
Owl’s Head is so fun. How’s the weather right now?
It was just like 80 degrees! And it’s Spring Break, and then we’re goin upstate New York. I don’t have school for like two weeks!
You gonna skate right?
Yeah!!! What’s the last tour you went on?
Last year, in December with OJ.
What’s your favorite combo with peanut butter?
Acai of course. Have you ever had it? Milo’s gotta try Acai. It’s like ice cream but it’s good for you.
Favorite donut?
Chocolate bar with the cream filling.
The interview’s over! Wanna do an interview with me?
Yeah, next time I’ll interview you!
Ok, 3..2..1… (Milo hangs up)
Sam: You better call him back and say goodbye. That was rude.
(Calls back) Sorry I forgot to say bye.
Haha, alright, bye Milo.

================================================================================

Hey Josh, what have you been up to today?
Pretty much every day I get to the office and I’m gonna work on editing some projects and then plan on getting out early to go film around 4. Then the emails start coming in and the problems start happening and I never open Final Cut Pro, I never go out skating, and I’m stuck in the office until like 8:30 or 9. So today was another one of those.
So when’s the last time you had a steady job that didn’t involve skateboarding?
It’s weird, almost every job I’ve ever had has been skate related. I was the first skater to work at S’nice. that cafe in the West Village that literally every skater has worked at. Aaron Herrington, Puleo, Sabback, Tierney, Shawn Powers…any skater that was part of the scene 8 years ago worked there at some point, but I was the first. I mean I’ve done contract work that wasn’t skateboarding, just like anyone that can hold a video camera in New York.
Would you say it’s unlucky or lucky to have your entire career based in skateboarding?
Um, I wouldn’t use the word luck. I guess it depends on what your goal is. If it’s to make a lot of money, definitely not. But a lot of jobs that normal people do aren’t really worth a lot of money to me anyways. I think what’s cool about working non-skate related jobs is you get to meet people, and broaden your horizons a bit. Be forced to do something you weren’t comfortable with or meet people you would never talk to otherwise.
Would you ever move back to Florida?
Ha, I used to say never just cause I can’t stand the climate of Florida, and when I would go back and visit my family I would just hate it cause it was so slow and boring. But now, I go and for about a week I just love it. You do everything with a car, laundry is in your house, things that you don’t even think about when you live there but here that’s such a luxury having laundry where you live. It’s incredible.
Do you have a favorite up and coming skater in New York?
You know what, there’s this one kid that I really like the combination of his skating and his personality. Kyota Umeki. He’s just this 15 year old little kid who lives in the city and it’s great watching his Instagram cause he is just having more fun than anybody. And he skates really well too! Look him up.
How about your favorite skater who doesn’t skate enough?
Ha, I guess Brian Clark or Keith Denley? Both notoriously good skaters who seemingly don’t skate enough. I mean, they just don’t care about filming, they’re probably skating a ton they just don’t care about getting clips. Which is awesome, but I always like to see those guys.
So how often do you get to skate nowadays?
It’s pretty rare man. My back’s been pretty fucked, so basically it’s like once a week at best. But I try to preserve it, or keep it as little fucked up as possible so I can go out and film with people. If I skate my back is done for a week, and it’s basically the same with filming. So if I skate it feels selfish cause then I’m not gonna be able to film anybody.
Damn, quite the dilemma. So when did you pick up a camera to start shooting photos?
I mean, me and my friends started filming probably when I was like 13, but I didn’t start shooting photos until I was 17 or 18. What I remember it being was living in a city like Tampa and there was just no outlet for the talent and the friends around. There was just so many sick skaters, and a lot of pros there, which was weird too, but there was just no way for these guys to get seen. So after filming, you start seeing clips getting used in 411’s or Transworld videos, or even doing my own, but magazines were really significant back then. I mean getting a photo printed in a magazine felt awesome, it was such an accomplishment for me and for the guys in our scene. Having a Tampa skater get a photo in 1998 in a magazine was a pretty big deal.
So a quarter page photo in a Transworld was more satisfying than having a single clip in a 411?
Yeah, I think so. Back then it was seen as more of an elite media. Things have changed a lot, but back then it was a finite thing, it felt like if you made it into a magazine you were more accepted by the industry.
And what do you think about the current climate of magazines today? What are they here for?
I know…it’s interesting. I guess you could relate it to what’s going on with board brands, where skaters almost feel like indie print magazines have more value or more relatability than the mainstream print magazines. It’s weird because I want to see Transworld make it, I like the guys behind it, and maybe it’s because I grew up in the ’90s, but I still feel a sense of accomplishment if one of my photos gets used. Where in the indie mags I think I appreciate them more and what they’re offering…
So what you’re saying is that the “larger” magazines have a stigma where it’s just not as special or thoughtful as something independent?
Totally, it obviously feels more mass produced in the same way where a big board brand does. There’s a whole generation of skaters that don’t care about a certain mainstream brand, no matter who rides for it or how long it’s been around, because there’s too big of a gap between them and the companies where things are mass produced by children or something. Then there’s the indie mags which feel like a throwback to the DIY side of skateboarding, where it’s more personal and you can feel a closer connection to the people making it for purer reasons instead of just a business. I don’t want to criticize these big magazines or board brands. You want to see them stay so there is a balance, because if you lose these more established entities than the smaller, indie stuff doesn’t feel as special. It’s like the rise of Street League and the Olympics. I don’t like that stuff but it existing makes our culture more valid to us, it gives us a reason to exist.
Very well said. Would you go to the Olympics in 2020? Like if someone offered you a ticket.
I don’t know, it’d be such a weird thing cause I’m not trying to be some activist protesting skateboarding being in the Olympics, but it just doesn’t jive with my view of skateboarding. Growing up in an era where you might as well have been a leper in my high school being a skater. So to see skateboarding accepted that way…I always compare it to hip-hop, where something becomes accepted by the mainstream and it almost becomes the opposite of what it stood for. So hip-hop in the ’90s and the stuff that resonated with me was positive and provided guidance, and now it’s flipped on its head and it’s huge! It’s more powerful than basically any other culture in a capitalist view.
I mean, I just saw on national TV a skateboarder pissing in his mouth while shitting. So apparently that’s where we’re at…
Exactly! I mean I could go off all day about this stuff, but in modern skating there is a huge part of it that is fully jock culture.It has fully adopted the jock culture that the part of skating I identified with was the antithesis of. Cause to me I thought skaters didn’t drink, they didn’t party, they skated and they cast that whole side of things away, They didn’t go to the gym and get buff, and all these other aspects that I guess I consider jock culture. But it made me realize that everyone has their own interpretation on their subculture in skateboarding, but I still think overall that jock shit…it’s just so embarrassing and so no what skateboarding should be standing for, or what attracted me to skateboarding.
But I mean there’s nothing we can really do except like you said, cultivate the other culture that feel is important and forget the rest.
The way I look at it with TOA is I worry that a lot of people see it as some established thing and think it’s bigger than it is. I try and cultivate most of the stuff that I think is important, but does it have the same value? Like if something seems successful, people of my mentality tend to veer away from it. If we were a huge success and making a lot of money I wouldn’t be afraid to say it, but we’re not. I fear that people viewing us as something bigger than we really are could hurt our cause.
How long have you been doing Theories of Atlantis?
I built the blog in conjunction with Static 3, so the site itself has been around for 11 years or more. It always had a little webstore that basically just had my videos and like Joe Perrin’s videos, or some Japanese videos that I thought were cool. The distribution thing started basically when Magenta started. I already had random products on the site, and since I was friends with those dudes, I started carrying a few things and then it just blossomed from there. Shops started asking me how to order the boards and it just slowly grew from there.
Let’s talk some Static shit. What’s the deal with spelling Wenning’s name wrong in Static 1?
It’s funny cause you look back and think “how could you spell that wrong!” but at that point nobody knew who Brian was! I think that footage was from that New Jersey filmer Jim Hodgson. But during the first two Static videos there were dudes that would just call me. I don’t even know how they got my number but they would just hit me up and want to send me footy. So I would get access to all this footage, like Poppalardo and Wenning clips when people didn’t know them yet. And there’s a lot of weird names in the northeast, so I was just making up the spelling and hoping I got it right. Steve Durante was another one, I think Andrew Petillo sent me his footage and I was thinking “is this guy wack or something?” Cause he was so good and no one had ever seen him before. Like I was thinking should I not use this footage? Cause if he’s this good and no one’s putting him on he must have done something wrong.
People would just call you and then mail you a tape?
Yeah, I must have met Strobeck in Philly or something, cause he filmed all kinds of shit for the first video, like the Love Park section he filmed almost the entire thing. Then Andrew Petillo would call me all the time, just asking about how the weather is and shit! It was so random just cause I didn’t know him at all, but then I finally mer him and he was awesome. Everyone knows each other through the internet or Instagram, but back then it was just an underground network of people doing the same thing and there weren’t that many outlets for stuff. Thankfully Andrew I guess thought his footage would be treated well in a Static video or something I could name so many filmers that helped just up down the east coast.
How often do you film on your phone? You make phone edits?
Quite a bit now. Let’s say we go on a trip to Chicago or something. While everyone is warming up I’ll film clips on my phone and then save them, then break out the VX and film the real tricks, then I’ll shoot a photo, then go home and make a little edit for Instagram. But now I feel like everyone puts that initial phone footage right onto their story. And really I just can’t believe the shit people post on Instagram.
Alright, so trend forecast 2019?
You’re talking to the wrong person. But I guess judging by the way pants have been going, I think we’re at the very end of the ’90s fashion-wise right now, so next is going to be the beginning of the iPath era, where everyone is just wearing brown corduroys, a white tee, and some Kenny Reed hat.
Any advice to filmers nowadays?
I’m assuming you mean video makers, not just filmers. I had the same complaint about two video that just recently came out. Everything was filmed long lens and there was no lines! I’ve done a couple of these classes before where I’ve talked to younger kids, and the thing I said to them is “do something different.” Like the Bronze videos, or the early Palace stuff was so unique. I feel like now, more than ever, in a sea of the same thing, if you do anything different it’ll help. If you’re a young filmer and trying to get paid the big bucks move to California and try to work for Primitive or some shit. But if you want to do something different and get noticed, make sure it’s unique to your scene and your culture, and crete some kind of different experience. Because that’s what’s going to make someone remember it.

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis.
Hey Mike, what are you up to?
I’m currently the artist-in-residence at Montecito Sequoia Lodge up at 7,000 feet in Kings Canyon National Park in California. I’m teaching art workshops during the day to people of all ages.
Where are you from originally?
I grew up in Irvine, California. It was close enough to Huntington Beach that I was fortunate enough to witness the daily sessions of Ed Templeton, Tom Penny, Geoff Rowley at the original tiny HB Park and really absorb all the little details of the culture. I was in awe of Ed and how he skated, did art, shot photos, and guided himself with a moral compass.
Were you already making art at this point, or would you say skating got you into it?
Skateboarding one hundred percent inspired me to think art was cool, dynamic, and relevant, instead of just another class in school like math or social studies. I was really inspired by all the nonconformist graphics of the ’90s like Mark McKee, Sean Cliver, Neil Blender, and Kevin Ancell. The walls of the skate shops in that era were like a lowbrow Louvre to me, shocking and wonderful.
Is there anything you’re trying to capture by painting on something and then shooting film of someone skating on it? Is there some deep artistic explanation for it or are you just a skater with paint and a camera having a good time?
Those shots that combine my murals and skateboarding are the full expression of my journey as an artist and as a skateboarder. It might sound corny but these shots mean the most to me. They document putting in the work with spray cans to paint a ramp at a park or DIY quickly and confidently with something that I believe beautifies and adds to the atmosphere, then having the communication skills and relationships to ask a ripper like Evan Smith or Tom Penny to blast on it while bringing it full circle with the fisheye and film camera. Then leaving hoping the moment has been captured properly and the film will print well. These moments combine my passion for painting, photography, and friendship, and sometimes the results are magical.
Speaking of magical, try to tell me about Evan Smith in five words or less.
Draws water from deep wells.
What’s the craziest place you’ve been with Evan? In any dimension.
I am so grateful for my friendship with Evan. A memory that sticks out with Evan was on a Skate Wild trip to the Lakota Nation. The van had broken down, so like a Pee Wee Herman movie we convinced a guy named Toof to loan us the front of a Big Rig truck to get to Pine Ridge. There was a thunderstorm and Toof’s truck ended up getting stuck in the Prairie so we had a few days to wander the ancient hills while we waited, literally for the earth to harden so the vehicle could move. We were sitting in a misty drizzle and Evan wrote a song based on a story our host Tilda told us. He ended up performing the song in the ballroom at The Harvey Milk Photo Center at a Skateboard show called Shutter Speed I produced there. These types of interconnections and far out stories are deeply woven into Evan’s fabric. So when he is on stage and says, “This is a song I wrote when we were stranded in The Black Hills of the Lakota Nation for a few days in a thunderstorm…” he is not spitting fairy dust or spinning a yarn, he is speaking the truth. There are countless stories like this from the road and the desert.
It seems like you’re big on connection making in both the art and skate worlds. Any advice you can give to artists tryinf to expand their horizons and network with their communities?
I think it is helpful to be articulate, direct, kind, and engaging. Many artists for whatever reason can be aloof, unresponsive, or avoid eye contact. Awkward human interactions, whether a slippery fish handshake, or mumbled introduction, can st a tone of mistrust and unprofessionalism. I would also encourage aspiring artists to rise to the challenges and risks that exist in this world.
Can you tell me how the Growlery came about, what you did there?
Jean Chadbourne was interested in starting an artist residency in the city and I had experience with residencies in Paris, Vienna, Copenhagen, and Illinois. Our partnership was actually formed here in the Sequoia Mountains. She gave me a two-year term, like a Senator, to launch, curate, and manage her newly refurbished Victorian in the Haight. I am proud of the skate and graffiti culture shows we did in that period. I tried my best to keep the doors open and create a welcoming safe space fr artists, skateboarders, and the community in general. Having a relatively “open house” in SF was very powerful and I would love to work more along those lines in the future.
Is SF still the place to be? How has the scene changed over the time you were there?
In my opinion SF will always be the crown jewel of the American skateboard scene. Besides the obvious Thrasher and DLX cultural influences, the skate photographs and footage of the city have a soulful historical quality that cannot be duplicated. The next generation of skaters are always reinventing or reinvigorating the scene whether it is EMB, Pier 7, The DMV curbs, Fort Miley, Potrero, The Avenues, and every nook and cranny. Each generation leaves their mark. People like PSplifff, Phil Shao, and Jake Phelps are Biblical figures in the testament of SF skateboarding. I think the influence of the filmmaking of Ryan Garshell annot be denied in terms of documenting the potential fun to be had in San Francisco. Stinks the rent is so high.
Are you close with the Alis homies in Copenhagen? When did you paint in the bowl and skate with them?
When staying at the residency in Copenhagen I biked down to Christiania. It turned out that the Alis crew and I had many friends in common. Tom was living in Copenhagen at the time, so it was a full circle experience from spending so many afternoons in awe of him of him at Huntington Beach Park and TSA demos as a grom. We skated, painted, and even shot skate photos of each other. Tom laid down on the ground in his fresh red tracksuit to shoot me doing a little frontside rock. It was his idea! I was blown away. I really respect the whole international DIY scene Alis supports. Of all the skate brands I admire, I feel the most natural representing their hoodies. People are always saying how much they love those guys! Nothing but good vibes. I feel they represent the skateboard spirit of wanderlust, community, diy, and sharing so well.
You’ve spent a lot of time in Europe, ever thought about just staying out there?
I really love going to Europe for months on end, but it always feels good to come home. America is very imperfect but I love my parents, friends, and rabbit that are here. I do feel deeply connected to North American wilderness and its plants and animals. I love surfing at San Onofre and skating SF. I would like to contribute to American culture and help in some way in healing our deep divides. Sometimes I feel proud to be an American when I think of our cultural contributions such as hip hop, graffiti, and skateboarding, but I also feel shame with our legacy of brutality, in particular with Indigenous Peoples and slavery. We also have a huge sickness with mass shootings and religion as political justification for nearly everything, but I don’t know what the cure is.
I wish you luck in finding it. What’s next for you? Anything coming up you’d like to promote?
I have been self-publishing my own small line of Huskyroundup pins and things based on a love of art, skateboarding, and travel. Thank you to my friends for appearing in the ads. I’ve also been shooting film for the Japanese Skate Magazine called SB Journal thanks to Senichiro Ozawa and Akiko Mihara for that. I hope to have an exhibition with them in Tokyo and Osaka when travel resumes on a larger scale. Grant Taylor also blessed me with a collaboration I am super honored to have done which should be in skate shops around the time this Skate Jawn drops. Thank you for taking the time to read this. All good medicine.

================================================================================

When did you start Dirty Shire and what did you expect to come from it?
I started it about two years ago just as something to do in the winter, posting skate related stuff going on around me, ill clips, fuckin’ around with friends. Now we’re posting stuff all the time, and people seem to dig it.
Is it mostly just for people in the Nashua, NH area or all over the state?
Most of what I post is from Nashua, I try to post stuff from other areas as much as I can. If it catches my eye, it’s getting posted. I def want other areas in NH up there as much as possible, keep it fresh ya know? If anyone has any good shit to post up, send it to mike@dirtyshire.com.
What’s the skate scene like in Nashua?
For a small city, it impresses me how deep we are. Real tight crew, NP for life. My second family for real.
Who helps you out with the site?
Design and posting is all me, but photos and videos: Jon Wolf, Tyler Rainville, Artie Noel, and Eric Escobar are always helping out.
You guys just put out a nice promo with a few small parts in it. Who helped making/filming for the video and who’s all in it?
Josh Riviere, Butters, Tyler Vickery, Nick Crafts, and Colin Kennery were the main parts, but there is a handful of homies throughout the whole thing. That was all filmed and edited by Jon Wolf, THANKS HOMIE! He just moved to Germany a few weeks ago so WHAT UP JON. www.jonwolf.org.
Want to thank anyone?
Everyone at Nashua skatepark, Chris Rice, Jon Wolf, Nick Crafts, THC, Colin Kennery, Andy Goy, Howie Hohen, Nick Fried, FTM, Identity, Eastern Boarder Nashua, and Grape Cigarillos.

================================================================================

What’s up?
Eating some lasagna.
How long have you been skateboarding?
Twenty three and a half years. Ever since I was 11.
How did you get started and where?
I started at the local elementary school up the street from my house. Indian lane. They had some benches there, and some curbs. Some janitors would chase us out. I’m from Media, PA just south of Philadelphia.
How long before you started coming to Philly to skate?
I kept on hearing about Love Park and skating downtown, midnight missions to skate Philly. I took a train on new years eve 1996 for the first time skated Love Park on a rainy day. I remember getting in trouble for going downtown I was only maybe 14.
Did you tell your parents you were somewhere else?
I don’t think I told them anything. but one of the friends I was with his mother found out about it and called my parents and told em I was in Philadelphia. My mother was kinda bummed but my dad seemed kinda excited about it.
Who was your first sponsor?
There was a company called Philadelphia Experiment that was based outta Philly and Vern Laird was the team manager. He got me on the super flow team which meant I could buy a deck for $20, once a month. I’d beat the shit out of it, and try to get another one and they’d be like, uh, we can only sell you one for 20 once a month. But still it was team, and video. I had a lot of fun. and eventually they were giving me boards.
When did you get on Traffic?
Right when Ricky started it. I was riding for New Deal before that. I was on the flow team. and naturally since we were skating together every weekend, almost everyday at that point, he put me on.
When did you go to Japan for the first time? How long were you there?
2006, It was really sick. You can skate in any direction forever and you’ll never get in a
sketchy situation. I was there on and off. I worked on a video with Traffic it was called
Tokyo Transfer
went there three times for that. First time just to film it and the second two times to edit and interview people and make Japanese subtitles and stuff like that.
How is your Japanese?
Oh it’s alright. I was just living there. I moved to Nagoya and lived there for six years. I think it’s the best city for skating in Japan. Just
because no ones really out there skating the streets and it’s a huge city.
Do a lot of people know English there? Do you just use that?
Not really in Nagoya. I mean in Tokyo you’ll find a lot of people that speak English. I had a lot of friends that we’d spend the whole weekend together just speaking Japanese.
Any advice for a skater going to Japan for first time?
Always gotta keep your passport on you. Because they can just stop you for being foreign and ask for ID. And if you have a pocketknife they’ll count it as a sword and you can get in trouble for that, anything over 6cm. I usually don’t carry my passport when I’m skating cause it’s gonna get all sweaty and stuff or you might lose it. There’s some awesome stuff though. You can get good fried chicken at a convince store in Japan.
How long have you been back?
Since August just this past summer. I had to pull the plug on everything and move out of the apartment. That’s really when I started taking a little more photos. When I was in Japan, a lot of my best friends are photographers out there. This guy Yukihisa Nakamura has a magazine called secret cut, he gives me my camera advice and stuff like that. But everyone out there there was encouraging me to skate more, you know. Like put the camera away come on skate. Then when I came back here there’s no one shooting photos and theres always people doing tricks. I’ve had the opportunity to shoot some pretty legit tricks. I love it. It’s a lot of fun. When I was on my way out of Japan I was really enjoyed taking pictures of like my experience in Japan. Kinda cultural stuff then when I came back to the US it seem like all I’m taking photos of is skateboarding.
That’s really all I want to shoot photos of. I like other stuff, but skate photo are special. Yea It’s unique. It’s the most me. The most original thing I can offer is pictures of skateboarding. I mean anyone can take a picture of the mummers walking around or whatever. It is a lot of fun, especially when you’re with friends.
Any resources you’ve been using?
I’m constantly trying new hobbies. I kinda want to make beef jerky, a friend at work had some beef jerky he made and I was thinking about trying to do that. I want to start a beer company some day and get a skate team together, that kinda thing. Kinda like a skate shop / not brew pub cause there wouldn’t be food, but like a small brewery with skateboards hanging on the wall. Skateboarders probably spend more money on beer then skateboard stuff at the shop.
What up with the Philly skate scene?
I mean Jimmy Chung coming back that was a big inspiration. I’m coming back from living in Japan for 5 years, but this dude hadn’t skated for 18. It’s really sick to be skating with him. A lot people love skating, and they don’t really have an outlet for it. One of the things I like to do is, if I get a photo, I want to send it the person like that instant, you know. Get it straight onto my phone and send it to em. Everybody really likes that.
So you got back to Philadelphia with no Love Park?
I did have an opportunity at Christmas time
to skate there two years ago. I was back for the holidays, but it was like a frenzy. Definitely not very mellow. I’ve been really enjoying municipal. It’s almost like the whole dream
of Love Park is being fulfilled. You can skate there on Saturday and Sunday.
They still kick you out though?
Sometimes. On Sunday we skated there for hours on end. It’s pretty sick. They don’t like chase you down like they used to. They’re not gonna put you in a headlock, or maybe they will, but not usually. It’s not like an everyday thing.
Why is there so much night footage from Japan?
Because most people even the skaters there work long hours. They’re working from like nine AM to nine at night, so the only way you’re gonna get out skating is to wait for them to get off work. I mean you can skate during the day on Sunday depending where you are you might get kicked out of a lot of spots. I remember when we were filming for Night Prowler the guy that made it Katsumi, he would get off of work at 7:30 or 8:00 come home at 9:00, sleep for like two and half hours until 11:30. Then we’d catch the last train down into the business district to go skate, then we’d come back on the first train, he’d take another quick nap and go back to work. Another difference is they don’t really skate residential neighborhoods there like they do here. I think the skaters out there are too respectful to do that as well.
Yeah house spots can be sketchy.
Yea I mean we used to skate stoops all the time. I remember this one, there was two stoops in a row, like grind one and pop to the other one. One of them was at an abandoned house but the other one was at this house with this dude living in it, that was just always there. He was like unemployed or something. And one time Ricky talked to the neighbor and Ricky was like, “I know he goes to the movies every Monday.” So next thing you know every Monday we
would go there at like 1:30 or 2:00, and skate it.
What kind of spots do you like?
It’s definitely good to have a bit of a rubble factor. Coming back to Philly from Japan everything is so perfect out there and now out here it has this different aesthetic to it. It’s almost naturally skate stopped some of the stuff, but if you can skate it it will look unique and kinda challenge people to come out and check out the spot themselves. I really like a spot where when someone actually sees the spot in person, they’re like wow I wouldn’t have understood that unless I actually came here in person and I guess the job of the photographer is to try their best to convey that kind of feeling. I love one-of-a-kind spots, or temporary spots.
What’s up with the weed in Japan?
All I know is if you do end up getting caught with it you go to jail for 3 months. It’s just really expensive and really hard to get. If you do go on a trip to Japan you kinda gotta just live without it for a lil. It might be harsh for a few days, you might be cranky. There was a story about some skater who visited and he had some of it in his pocket, and I guess they
searched him, and they took the whole crew, everyone he was with back to the police station and gave them all a piss test, and if they had it in their system they were jammed up as well.
Any advice for being a sponsored skateboarder?
I’m kinda enjoying not being sponsored because that’s the best thing to have no pressure. Thats the way I feel. I’m not making a living off of it. I just do it for fun and enjoy it for what it is, don’t try to take something from it other than enjoyment. Don’t feel like you should deserve anything because there’s a billion, not a billion but thousands of people that are really good at it. It’s like being good at guitar theses days. So many people are good at guitar but some people get paid a lot of money for playing guitar. I mean how rare is a chance to make it like that. Advice? Don’t think about getting sponsored just think about having fun, staying out of trouble, being with friends, meeting new people, traveling.

================================================================================

Paul Young is wrapping up filming for his third independent video, Down By Law, a full length set
to premiere January 2024. Over some cold beers we talked about what full lengths mean to him,
how this video came to be, what he’s learned in 13 years of filming, preferred cameras, and some other skate shit. I was also able to get a few photos this last summer while being present on sessions.
Photos and Interview by Tristan Smith
What’s more fun for you, editing
or filming?
I was going to say filming is more fun and editing is more rewarding. The moment the guy lands the trick and everyone is like “Oh shit” and hopefully you filmed it good, going home with that product is very gratifying. They’re different though, you can’t compare. Editing is cool because it’s like doing a puzzle, more mentally engaging.
Favorite camera?
VX1000.
Least favorite camera?
HPX170.
Do you prefer night clips or day clips?
I definitely used to think everything looked cooler at night, but I also used to have a generator. When I was younger I feel like you, Justin White, and Jersey Dave in particular would trip on when it was getting dark and you had to put the light on but the sky is still blue, do you know what I’m talking about?
Yes. That in between light. Sounds
like Dave.
Uh huh.. “Oh is it going to look good? It’s like too in between…” getting fake mad when you go to put the light on, and then those clips always end up looking the best. So, maybe those dusk clips when they work out. There’s also something pleasing about long lens on a perfectly sunny day.
Favorite place you’ve filmed in?
New York. Manhattan in the daytime.
Least favorite place you’ve filmed in?
Ohio.
What’s your preferred spot to film? Somebody tells you “Hey I got a spot” what are you hoping they say?
Depends on the skater because sometimes it’s fun going to something cuttier, and that’s probably the skating I like watching the most. But filming “traditionally hard” shit never gets old, a rail or a hubba. Okay here’s an example, like what’s going to get me the most excited, Aaron Herrington hitting me up like “I want to skate Brick Nine rail during the day.” So you get the midtown lighting, the look of the buildings in the background, that’s a good phone call. The unpredictability keeps filming exciting too though, a lot of the times the spot can inspire how you document it.
Bump to bar or cellar door?
Cellar door. More options.
Do you have a purist’s inclination to filming or is it whatever the job requires? You did that piece with Richie recently on Hi-8 and that’s an old school technology.
That was Vans idea to do it that way. They pitched it. So to me I’ll say purist but I think a purist is more the attitude behind the camera and how you use it. Not the medium.
So you’re not a stickler about the camera as long as it’s the attitude?
If it’s my money, my project I’ll be a stickler about the camera.
And what camera is that?
The VX1000.
You’re now working on your third video called
Down By Law
, seven years after Bleach. What’s changed now in 2023? What could you say about your maturity as a filmer?
When I was working for Quasi, even though I was mostly just dealing with Rich and Josh, something I learned was going on a trip type pace even when you’re home. Where you try and go to like 8 or 9, 10 spots a day. I didn’t really tap into that fully until I started working on my own thing though. If you’re going to go out, go out for the full day. I’ll try to project a positive attitude and that’s not always easy when you’re just working for someone else. But now that I’m working on my own project, it’s like, how am I expecting these guys to want to be there if it looks like I don’t even want to be there? So I try and put out my best attitude every single day and be on it. “Let’s go to Home Depot, let’s fix some shit, I got this shit in my car, let’s cut this” you know, just on it much more than before. I’m extremely grateful for everyone’s time and effort towards the video, so it comes naturally. Plus, a lot’s changed since age 22, going to the bar every night.
What’s good with the title
Down By Law
, how’d you come up with that?
I think a lot of people think it’s a law enforcement oppression thing which it is, but it’s an old school hip-hop vernacular as well. “Are you down? I’m not just down, I’m down by law.” Like, “I’m in the book, I’m certified.” It’s the title of an MC Shan song, but you’ll hear it a lot on older records.
You’re heavily influenced by hip-hop right?
I’m a hip-hop fan of course. It’s like a little flex. You know, like I’m from here, most of my guys are from here, we’re down by law.
How much of the video will have hip-hop?
More than 60% less than 80%.
What’s your motive for making a
full length
?
My motive for making a full length is inherently selfish I’d say. It’s like, I want to put a bunch of guys together that wouldn’t necessarily be together otherwise. Trying to showcase skaters I like, in the format I enjoy seeing skating in. They’re also just amazing snapshots of time. The premiere is always the big incentive. That’s the most gratification you’re ever going to get in one small dose. They’re just so fun and everyone is on such a high at a good premiere.
How long have you been filming for
Down By Law
and do you remember when you decided in your head that you wanted to make a new video again?
Sure. During the summer of Covid, Joe Russo and I filmed this back nosegrind on the top of a table with a VX. At that time I was still filming HD, but had just started to work for Josh Stewart at Theories using a VX again. That got me hyped. You know, I love Joe. Anything I work on he’s the first person I’m calling, so us getting a couple clips got me sparked. I didn’t know what it was going to be for, but a couple weekends later we filmed a few more things, a line and a single. Then it’s like “Okay, well now I have to make something.” Originally I thought I was going to sneak him into the new Static video somehow.
Would you like to see more full lengths coming from people in the future?
Fuck, I don’t know. Full videos are great when they’re cohesive pieces. When they seem scatterbrained you’re just going to fast forward to parts you want to watch. Fuck it, yeah people should make full lengths, it’s better than making the side project. There’s a fun dynamic that goes into the process of an independent video if you’re doing it right, like Grady Smith and Joe Russo for example. When they hang out that gets me hyped. That’s a sick dynamic that wouldn’t really happen anywhere else.
Camera operator or filmer?
Filmer. Filmer sounds more like… I think there’s more dignity in being called a filmer. Like a monkey could be a camera operator.
So what’s a filmer?
It has a skate connotation. Do civilians say filmer? It conjures up more artistic value in my mind than “camera operator.”
Who will have full parts?
I can give you some answers and there will be some surprises. Joe Russo, Aaron Herrington, Ben Tenner, Justin Helmkamp, Dick Rizzo, Josh Wilson, Vin Perso, Grady Smith, Arty Smith…
Which skate filmers have influenced you?
Justin White. He had a super clean and effective way of filming. He’s helped me personally grow as well with my own video, providing some useful guidance. Josh Stewart. I think he’s a master. A pioneer with the camera. Those come to mind right away. JP Blair, I only realized this recently, but he really inspired me to put your friends on the same playing field as whoever you might be filming who’s “hot.” Treat your hometown buddies with the same presentation that you’d film the upcoming amateur. That really stuck with me.
Top five skate videos?
In no order,
Static 2, Aesthetics Ryde or Die, Photosynthesis, Last of The Mohicans
,
Skypager
.
If you could film any skater that has ever existed who would you film?
Stan Karbine. We filmed a couple things but I would have loved to film a full part with him.
What’s a trick you were really juiced on when filming but it got away?
There are a couple but one that comes to mind is Richie almost frontside ollie’d over the bench at Con Ed Banks a couple different times while we were wrapping up his part for Mother. Fully sticking it too.
What advice can you give on doing bs slappys?
Okay, this is some real fucking pool skater shit, but I remember reading something in another skate magazine that read, “10% skill 90% attitude.” But it’s true man, sounds corny but it really is some shit like that. It’s all in your toes. They nailed it, although that quote was not what I was thinking while learning it.

================================================================================

You recently moved from Mississauga, a suburb of Toronto, to Vancouver. What sparked that move?
The reason I moved to Vancouver was I had a shit job, shit girlfriend, and was sick of the politics of the Toronto skate scene and decided to join my friends I met in San Francisco on the Wordzine trip. I knew that there was some new and exciting experiences for me out west got the opportunity to move out and just took it.
How’s life been out there so far?
My first impression of Vancouver was the scenery, the mountains, the ocean, it was all beautiful. Now regarding Hasting Street, it’s definitely the opposite end of that spectrum. But between the mountain peaks and the heroin addicts in the streets, living in Vancouver has been an amazing experience and the skate scene is definitely different from Toronto. The “GTA” is more of a laid back session made up of smaller groups, hitting up different spots. Where as Vancouver is like go skate day, but every day, and the parties are better.
Tell me about your love of the late shuv. Can you do them down anything you can ollie?
I accidentally discovered the late shuv goofing around with the homies, It just worked out for me and from then on out it became my go to trick. After I became more comfortable with it I decided to try late big spins and fakie late big spins. Now it’s second nature to me. It’s had mixed reviews, it’s a love it or hate it trick, depending what I’m skating I guess.
Why do they call you Cody Bologna?
Well for starters it rhymes, so that worked out. But I got that nickname at a party one time in Van when I was getting made fun of for my poor eating habits. Anyone who knows me knows I have the diet of a six year old child, chicken fingers and hot dogs. Anyways, as they continued to roast me they said, “You like bologna sandwiches don’t you?” to which I replied, “Yes, of course.” Cody Bologna was born and I immediately made it my own.
What gets you hyped to skate such gnarly spots? Do you have a process to hype yourself up?
It honestly all depends on the day. Some days it’s just me a photographer, filmer, and a buddy, and other days we’re rolling with 20 guys. It really doesn’t matter to me who’s at the sesh, it’s generally the energy of the people I’m with that gets me hyped to say fuck it and just go for it. I’d rather just grind a crazy rail that no one else would touch than battle a switch flip nose manny big spin out, that at the end of the day no one is going to remember. I’d rather go big or die trying.
What does the future hold for Cody Beaudry?
I honestly am unsure of what the future holds, all I really know is I am going to continue chomping rails and having fun with my friends. I’m loving the Vancouver lifestyle and I can’t wait for the summer so I can go back to late night seshes, shredding the streets downtown, and beers on the beach.

================================================================================

Where you from?
Born and raised Philadelphia, PA. 215 represent.
What’s the furthest you’ve ever been from Philly?
New York., D.C. That’s it.
You remember yr first time at Love?
Yeah, first time at Love I was like ten years old and five minutes in the cops came through. That was the best feeling ever, just running from the cops with like a million people.
Do you think that Philly skating is different than New York?
Totally different, I mean in New York the scene out there is more trendy skating and it’s real cliquey. But everyone meets out here, everyone knows each other, everyone skates. Like if yr not downtown you don’t skate Philly, simple as that.
2016 is almost over, what do you think is one of the best videos of this year?
I’m still watching Sabotage 4 every day and old 90’s videos. Everyone’s hyped now, everyones good, everything’s sick now.
What do you think about mongo pushing?
I mean if yr doing it regular yr a dickhead. But if yr pushing switch mongo and you can’t push switch fast, I mean fuck it, whatever. It is what it is, people gonna hate on it but I still do it. I push switch mongo, I don’t really give a fuck. But I guarantee I’m getting that trick.
How do you think skateboarding affects you as a person?
It’s my life. Without it I can’t do anything.
You skate New York a lot?
Yeah, I’ve been going up there skating with some homies in Brooklyn, just meeting new people all the time, shit is sick.
What spots you been skating?
Really it’s been different shit every single time I go out there, which is ill. One spot I really liked was the Vietnamese plaza. There’s these ledges in the back and you could tell nobody really skates them. I had to break them in right then and there to get a trick. Definitely a sick spot though.
So who shot these photos?
The homie Mike from downtown, Andrew Meyer shot a photo, Billy Cox hooked it up with a photo, and then Matt Pepe hooked it up too. Jah bless all the homies.
What do you think is the dopest skatepark in Philly?
None. The streets.
But have you gone to Mcreesh, or Grays Ferry? Any of the ones out there?
If I had to choose one it’d be Grays Ferry or 9th and Poplar. Mainly just cause it’s a chill environment, yr not like “Oh I gotta go jump down these stairs, or I gotta go snake somebody.” It’s more just mellow vibe tip, so that shit’s sick. If anything.
You go to school?
Yeah I just started a computer engineering major, but trying to skate as much as possible.
Do the chicks at yr school like skaters?
Yeah every single one of em.
Shit’s hot right now. Got chicks wearing Thrasher shirts and shit…
Dude the chicks can wear it though! It’s the dudes that can’t skate and you rocking a Thrasher tee, and you a nigga, you gotta take that shit off. I mean the main reason I say that is because when I grew up in Southwest you got so much shit for skating. I was the only skater in my neighborhood and people would clown heavily on me, like people used to try to break my boards and throw em in the sewer. So I see people out there rocking that shit I make sure to tell them to take it the fuck off.
How old are you?
19.
Who are some people in downtown right now killing it?
EVERYONE. But if I had to choose one person it’d be my homie Kevin Bilyeu, cause that nigga is the raddest dude ever. Man, if people don’t know who he is now, they will pretty soon. That’s all I gotta say.
When was the last time you went to the beach?
Never, I fucking hate the beach. I went when I was five years old but haven’t been since.
What’s yr worst habit?
Biting my nails, I gotta stop doing that.
What’s the last trick you forgot?
Damn that’s a good one. Regular heelflips, can’t do em anymore. Still got switch ones though.
What’s one trick you’ve only done once ever?
Tre flip crook. I did one at Love and then decided to never do it again.
You ever been arrested?
Nah but I’ve been put in handcuffs before, some dickhead cop at Love. It’s a looonnggg story, but let’s just say it was Love.
You got any last words?
Lemme just shout out ILP, Jason, Kevin Bilyeu, Sabotage, and the entire 215. All my homies gonna make it one day.

================================================================================

What’s up with the new car you got?
Dude, I got a time machine yo. I scored some old mint condition car that, I dunno, it’s crazy.
Does it stress you out when people get into it with their skateboards?
It doesn’t, naw. It’s just that there’s shit on there that you can’t replace, so I’m trying to be good about it. But at the end of the day if it gets fucked up I’m not going to freak out.
What are you going to do if somebody burns your seat with a joint?
It’s just another material thing, ya know?
How do you feel about skating in a city after doing it for over a decade? Seeing the culture change and how many participants there are in skateboarding now?
Back in the day it was a totally different scene in the city, the old Union Square, all these weird cutty spots, even pier 7 was a go-to. It’s changed; there’s different spots that are go-tos, 3rd and Army kind of replaced a lot of those and even that’s an old spot now. Some people go to Waller, which I try to avoid, not because I don’t like it but it’s just such an easy go-to that it can kill the motivation for the day. But there’s hella people skating, with cruisers and longboards and such a diverse range of people who actually ride a skateboard. Compared to back in the day there were more actual skater-skaters, like if you saw someone out skating you knew they were just a skater. Now more of the population of earth is skating in general.
You teach kids how to skateboard up in Santa Rosa?
Yea, I have a skate camp I do in the summer, this is my 4th year, I do it through the city of Sebastopol. I had to propose my camp idea to them, they reviewed it and were all, “ehh, I dunno,” but they approved it and now all my kids are insured and we have contests. Everyone’s stoked. The kids love it.
It seems like you DJ quite a bit…
Yea, there are so many DJs out there that it all depends, real gigs where you’re trying to get paid and shit are kinda few and far between. It’s more like going to people’s parties, having a community of DJs that you respect and mess with and everybody kind of gets together and you get gigs through homies and shit. I was DJing at bars when I first moved to the city but that got a little crazy, ya know, the bar life. Getting paid basically in drink. I had a lot of fun, getting home at 8am while my roommates are eating breakfast and shit, but ya gotta watch out, gotta try to do it and then go home. I just love to DJ and wanna be out there DJing as much as I can.
You gonna make the soundtrack for the new Acid Boys video?
Oh yea dude, that shit’s going down. I can’t wait. I think that’s gonna come together pretty soon, gotta get the homies filming their parts.
What is Acid Boys SF?
It’s actually Acid Boysfff, just so you know, and it’s just a sports team. We do a lot of shit like hockey and volley ball and some badminton.
Do you think your interests in music and skateboarding have influenced each other?
Yea, I think I first became a skateboarding enthusiast and fanatic, knowing all the shit that’s going down, grom status, reading all the Thrashers and that shit. Skating helped refine my music tastes through videos, 411’s and stuff, ya know, you’re listening to Mobb Deep or DJ Crush or something else that’s the shit. I got into that, then I think getting older, being as into skating as I was kind of tapered off and I actually just skated. It was just a thing I did, and I’d think about other stuff. I think music took on that enthusiasm I had for skateboarding when I was young. I had the same kind of excitement about music that I always have had about skating.
Are you working on any video parts currently?
Just working on the Acid Boys video. My boy GX1000, me and him are trying to film some shit here and there. Mostly shit for the web, there’s so many videos and projects I’m trying to wrap up.
You’re from wine country, do you drink a lot of wine?
Just a little Rossi, and some Franzia box wine. I went to the Franzia winery, I took the Franzia tour just the other week, I love it.
What’s the secret dude?
It’s all in the box, it does something for the fermentation. They got some kind of shit worked out with the design.
If you had to leave SF, where do you think you’d go?
That’s a trippy question. There’s a saying, I can’t remember who said it, but it goes “What do San Franciscans say when they go to heaven? It ain’t bad, but it ain’t San Francisco.” And that’s real.
So, you’d go to heaven?
Yea.

================================================================================

Interview by Marcus Waldron
Photos by Ben Colen
Video by Ryan Mettz
How long have you been in New York?
I’ve been living in New York for the past three and a half years now. Since April, 2021.
What brought you here?
I’ve been always wanting to move here since I was in high school, just always in the back of my head, but I kept putting it off. I was going to move here when I was 18, but just didn’t have the money. Then I just saved up a bunch of money during Covid doing Uber Eats and then moved out here on a whim. I knew some people. I kind of knew Tenzin and Sully, but mostly Andrew was the one person I actually knew, but quickly became friends with Sull and them.
What’s Portland like?
Do you miss anything about it? It’s really sick from later spring to early fall, but then there’s a six month window of rain pretty much. It’s really beautiful and has a rainforest type of vibe, but there’s just so much rain. It’s pretty wearing on the soul, but it’s fucking sick. It’s so beautiful and the people are so nice. I love it.
Do you ever pick mushrooms in Portland? Is that a thing people do?
That is a thing people do, but I’ve never done it. I don’t drive. I don’t have my license, and you have to drive an hour or two. It’s like a mission to go into the woods and get the good ones. There’s nowhere in Portland proper that you can just pick, I don’t think unless you grow.
Have you ever drove a car?
No. Never.
What about the strip clubs?
I know. It’s always so funny. I left there when I was 20, so I never really went to any of the strip clubs or any of the bars, but that’s such a big scene in Portland. Everyone’s always asking me, where’s the best strip club to go to? And I’m like, dude, I actually don’t even know. I just say fucking Mary’s.
How did you end up getting on Limosine?
Just Max and Cyrus. Or how it actually happened was, we had talked about it for a while, once it started, but they already had a set team, so there wasn’t really space for me in the beginning. And then Max was like, no, don’t worry, just hold out. We’ll get you on. I was like, all right, fuck it. I was just getting Habitat boards for a while, and then Cyrus literally one day was just like, “Oh yeah, you want to get boards?” I’d forgot about it, honestly. It was probably after a year and a half of me living here.
You’ve been going on trips with them since then? What was one of the best trips you went on?
Yeah, we went on three trips so far to Austin, North Carolina, and Montreal. Something about Austin was just so sick, and it was my first time going on a real, paid, skate trip. That was the rst time I was like, oh, shit. I got flown out somewhere far. I was tripping, and it was just so much fun. It was my first time meeting Noah, and the spots in Austin are so good, and the food, I don’t know, something about Austin was really sick. It was just so easy for skating. The other two trips were really sick. In North Carolina there was a ton of people and we were constantly moving, so the skating aspect was kind of hard, for me at least. Then Montreal, I rolled my ankle halfway through. I rolled my ankle, but it was still sick.
Is that what you are still healing up from?
Yeah, I’m still healing from that. We went there pretty much exactly a month ago now.
Are you doing anything to heal it? Do you have any routine?
Yeah, it took me a little bit to get into a routine of it, but I just wake up and do PT every morning. I have a fucking band, do the toes, and then to the side, and heel raises and shit. I’ve rolled my ankles so many times. I’ve probably rolled each of my ankles three or four times now, so I kinda know how to do it. It took me a while though. I definitely rolled my ankle a couple of winters ago and it took me fucking five months to heal from it. I just got drunk every day and didn’t do anything. I was just so off it. I could not heal this fucking ankle.
You’ve been living with Max Palmer? How’s that been?
It’s really sick. It’s me and my friend Aidan, who’s also from Oregon, and we both don’t really have anything, so it’s kind of all his shit. We live in his apartment. That’s how it feels,
kind of. He’s about to move out though in two weeks. He’s got his own spot. We’re going
to have nothing.
Did you skate Burnside much growing up?
Yeah. I started skating when I was 10 or 11, and I mostly just skated street spots in Portland, but then I couldn’t skate transition very well. I was always like, fuck that. I hate that shit. And then I got all hyped on
Burnside, but I was super shook to skate there. I could not skate anything, so I went there every day from 15 to 17 or 18, literally every day before I went and skated, I would go there and make myself skate, and I learned how to skate the park. I would just go there and see other people skate, and I was like, why the fuck am I scared? This is so whack. I want to be able to just go anywhere and skate. Yeah, I love that place. It’s changed so much though. They built so much shit since I started going there.
What’s the first skate video you remember being hyped on?
One of the first ones I ever watched was Tweak the Beef. That Enjoi video. We had a movie store in our neighborhood and we would go and rent videos and we would just watch Tweak the Beef or Dog Town. One of the first ones I was really hyped on was probably Pretty Sweet, or once I started actually getting into skate videos and caring, it was like, Welcome to Hell. I used to watch that every day. Then I went to a heavy Anti-Hero phase, and we watched Cow every day probably.
What’s your favorite kind of skateboarding?
Smooth street skating. I know that sounds fucking weird, but my favorite skaters growing up were Huf and Quim Cardona and heads like that, who would just skate down the street and hit shit. I feel like that’s what gets me the most hyped, is just people with good style and powerful skating. I think that’s what I like to watch the most, at least. I have respect and love for all types of skating, transition, and gnarly, tech street skating too. But if I had to choose, probably that.
Any advice for somebody growing up who wants to move to a city and try to get sponsored and shit?
Fuck, that’s so hard. Trying to get sponsored… Stop trying to get sponsored and just film videos with your friends. Just be as pure at skating as you can, and people notice that. I feel like once people start to see that you just want to get sponsored, they’re going to be off it. But if you just want to skate and film because you want to, they’re way more hyped on that. I feel like that’s the only thing that’s ever worked for me.

================================================================================

Interview by Tammy & Cheddarbobbbb
Photos by Ben Samuels
Tammy: Where’s your ass from? How old is your ass? And what’s your ass’s favorite color?
Damn favorite color is probably pink. I’m from Connecticut but have been living and skating in Pittsburgh for the last three years. Just moved in with Chewis so we’ll see what happens from there. And what was the third? How old? I’m 28.
Tammy: What’s your favorite bodega snack and beverage?
Pre-covid prices, the 50 cent chocolate chip cream pie, and an Arizona or a dollar beer, like a Natty Ice.
Tammy: Is there anyone in particular or any videos that have been an inspiration behind the tricks that you do.
Damn that could be a long answer.
Cheddarbobbbb: What’s the first that comes to mind?
I’ll just shout out Jay Reboin cuz that dude kinda taught me how to skate.
Tammy: Are there any inspirations that have made an influence pertaining to wearing overalls?
Not really honestly. This dude I work with just gave me his overalls. And it was after the whole overalls trend. I was literally handed a pair of Carhartt overalls and I just skated in them.
Tammy:  Worst place you ever slept?
Probably that big lake in Vermont. Lake Champlain. And it was like the middle of the night and there was this wooden tipi that someone made there just to chill in. I’m like oh this looks sick to sleep there. I was parked like a mile up the road so I just skated down there cuz I’d been there during the day and I’m like, yo I wanna go sleep by some water. But there were so many mosquitos dude, I got bit fuck up.  It was so hard to sleep cuz they were just biting me all night. During the day there’s no mosquitos and flies out cuz it’s kinda like a big frying pan. They’re all probably in the brush but at night they come to the water.
Tammy: Jim Greco or Jimmy Gorecki?
Jim Greco.
Tammy: What’s your favorite city to skate in? and it’s OK if you don’t say Pittsburgh.
New Haven cuz it has a sick skatepark and it’s got a lot of spots you can go to from there. But my favorite spots that I’ve skated are never really in a city. It’s like some random fuckin shit, like some random bando. I never went to a city and was like oh this is it. It’s more so the convenience of having all the spots.
Tammy: Any notable stories or finds from checking out a bando?
Before I moved here we went to Century Three Mall to check it out.
Cheddarbobbbb: Did you know that’s where they filmed Dawn of the Dead?
I didn’t know that but my friend took me there. They definitely still had security there cuz they were still using the parking lot as a bus stop. But we just walked around the building and found one door that was open. It was completely empty inside but there was still power. Like all the mall directories were still lit up. The second floor was all flooded cuz of the roof leaking. It was like an inch thick of all this green mold stuff. We were inside for probably two hours. There was only one door that was unlocked and I think someone had recently busted it open. And we did see the security guard driving around. I think what had happened was in the time while we were in there, maintenance came around and saw that the door wouldn’t lock so they drilled a piece of sheet metal around the frame of the door while we were in there.  It wasn’t dark yet but me and my friend were walking around for like an hour trying to find another exit. I didn’t wanna break a window and go out and have a fucking patrol car just waiting right there to arrest us. So we waited til it was dark and then I took a fire extinguisher and slammed it on the door until it busted open. And that’s when I could see when we got out that there was a piece of sheet metal they had screwed around the frame. Dude they literally locked us inside.
Tammy: Most incredible dumpster find?
Hmm, Little Caesars.
Cheddarbobbbb: Still hot?
Yeah, still hot. My homies brought me there. They were trying to show me what spots to dumpster dive at. I think we were in Nashua, NH cuz they put in a new park and we were staying there for like a week or two. And my homie was like oh we should go check out some dumpsters around here, and that was the first spot we went to. If you go right when they close you can just get free pizza. It was still warm, still in the box. They’re literally throwing out hot food in a dumpster.
Cheddarbobbbb: How many pairs of those big DC’s have you had?
Probably like twelve since they’ve re-issued them in like 2018. They last like three months dude. They’re durable as hell.
Cheddarbobbbb: And that’s why you wear them?
I broke my ankle pretty bad and it doesn’t really work right so I don’t know. Vulcanized shoes hurt my foot.
Cheddarbobbbb: And so that’s why you’ve been wearing the checkered slip-ons tonight lifting and carrying shit while we were helping you move in?
When I’m walking yeah. Try to exercise that shit out ya know?
Tammy: Longest you’ve ever tried a trick?
I’d say probably like 5 hours.
Tammy: Who are 5 skaters that you’ve been hyped on lately?
Fred Gall, Bobby Puleo, Shawn Powers, John Francomacaro, and Ethan McCarthy.
Tammy: How much money does Bill Cunningham owe you?
Five bucks.

================================================================================

What you got going on today?
I’m doing some school stuff, trying to register for a last minute class before the spring semester starts.
Where are you from?
Houston, Texas.
You like living in Texas?
Yeah, it’s cool. I like living in Houston because it’s one of the most diverse cities. So you get like a little bit of everything. Texas gets kinda crazy once you get out of the big cities. Austin is cool. San Antonio is cool. Houston’s cool. And then like, you always have those like small towns that are like sometimes sketchy, or there’s nothing to do there.
Have you always skated like a lot of transition?
Yeah, I actually grew up across the street from one of the biggest skate parks in Texas, Lee and Joe Jamail skate park. One day i was bored so my mom told me to go skate across the street. So that’s how I got into skating, just going across the street to the skate park. I would go to the bowls because you first start skating, you don’t want to get in anyone’s way and the bowls would be empty. Eventually I met like my roommate and my best friend now, we call him Sleeves, and he skated a bunch of transition. I’m really glad I started skating transition because I never see like black people skating it, so I’m always rare wherever I go. I always get people thinking I’m Zion when I pull up to some random park, I’m like, what the heck?
Do you remember learning to drop in or did you just do it right away?
I remember I dropped in first on this little mini ramp at the park. Actually, I have the video. After that I just dropped everywhere in the park. That was probably like week two of skating.
What’s up with that biggest vert ramp in Texas that you skate?
It’s on my friend Scott property. He’s been trying to get that done for years. I probably met Scott in 2014 and he was talking about it, but he finally got it built last year. It’s really putting Houston on the map and vert skateboarding on the map. He had the Banger in the Hangar event, It was a really good turnout, even though we’ve got Covid going on. Tony Hawk made it, Christian Hosoi, Tony Magnusson, a lot of the old school came through. Skating vert on concrete skating and on wood are two different things. I was messing up my knees so bad for so many years.
Parks to street skating? What’s your ratio?
Now it’s more like 50/50. Usually I’m in the park during the week and then I’m in the streets on the weekend. I’ll say that like Friday, Saturday, Sunday, I’m probably in the streets filming. When I was younger, it was more like 80/20. If I take a trip, then I’m like a hundred percent in the streets.
Have you ever made or helped with a mini ramp DIY?
Oh yeah. With the HVR ramp, I put up a couple panels on the vert ramp and I got fired on my first day because I accidentally dropped one of the panels when we were trying to set it. There were two people underneath so I kind of dropped it on them, me and my roommates Sleeves. I’ve helped out with a couple of DIYs, this past summer living in Kansas City. I was out there on an internship and I helped out with Harrison street DIY. There’s a pretty big DIY scene in Houston too.
What’s up with your last did a video part
Gem
?
I put out a video part named
Gem
in October with my friend Dylan Berg. I was interning in Kansas City because I’m an engineering student at A&M and I met the Escapist team and was hanging out with them and filming with them every weekend. Dylan asked if I wanted to do something with all the footage so the last weeks we just went hard to get the final bangers. I came back to Houston in August and we put it on in October. I called it
Gem
because like my experience in Kansas city was way better than I expected it to be, so I thought it was like a hidden gem. It’s a beautiful city with beautiful people. The people of the Midwest, they have real hospitality, real manners in that area. That was like probably my first video part where I felt like it was real, you know? I picked up a couple of sponsors from it. And so now I’m like filming another one to come out this year before I graduate.
Do you wrestle?
I wrestle for Texas A&M. I’ve been wrestling since I was in middle school actually. I got a scholarship to wrestle and I’ve won nationals the past two years. It’s opened a lot of doors. I started wrestling and skating at the same time. I encourage everybody to wrestle, just like I encouraged everyone to skateboard. You can learn so much from it. Honestly it’s a beautiful sport.
Do you get shit from your coach for skating?
All my coaches try to get me to chill out on skateboarding during the season. Eventually they realize okay, he’s never going to stop skating, at least it’s helps to can cut weight. I would go to practice and then at night I would go skate and lose like another pound or two. Then I come back the next day, lighter than I was.
Who are some of your favorite people to watch skate right now?
GT always. I still watch like old Ben Raybourn videos. This year I really liked Pedro Delfino, he just barges everything. Those are like my top three right now. If I had to throw in another one it’d be Oski.
What about women you like watching skate?
I like watching Nora, she has crazy good style. And usually in the videos they show her personality, she’s a good person as well. And then that one girl that skates mega ramp, she’s been going crazy, Sky Brown.
What do you think about street grabs?
That’s a no go. Although I recently just got a clip of a boneless over a rail into a bank. I feel like it was acceptable, especially the way I did it. But street grabs down like stair sets nah, nah.
You ever skate contests?
Not really, maybe one a year. This ditch contest that goes on in Houston, it’s like jam session and that’s always hella fun. But usually I just film.
Got any plans for after you graduate?
I got a couple of job offers lined up but I plan to travel a bunch though. I want to travel and just learn a lot about the world and people, the different perspectives and different geographical locations. So I want to continue learning in skateboarding, but also learning in life as a person before I really settle down. I want to leave my city, go somewhere else, and then I want to come back to Houston and chill.

================================================================================

What you doing nowadays?
Well, my routine is starting to become more making/selling incense, It’s called Dream Lion Incense. I’ve been doing it for the past year, but the past couple weeks/months I’ve been putting more energy into it. Like setting up at farmer’s markets and pop-up shops. Watching people come by, interacting with people, and selling them incense.
Do you still do Dope Soap?
I started Dope Soap. It’s def happening, my friends in Phoenix are putting way more energy into it now at this point. Pretty much running the show. I had a part in starting that, making the recipes back in 2011.
When or why do you use incense?
When I was a kid my parents probably burned incense. It wasn’t unfamiliar. When I lived in India they’re burning the dhoop sticks in all the temples, it’s basically a giant cloud of incense at that point. I never had this big plan, but one day I had this idea that it would be cool to make an incense company. I got on the phone, and was immediately trying to like outsource everything. And then I stopped, like fuck it, I’ll start from scratch. That way I’ll put in the proper energy to care about it, more than I would by just outsourcing everything. So I just started, I didn’t really know what I was doing at first.
How long did you live in India?
Nine years at a boarding school in North India where I lived in the jungle at the foothills of the Himalayas.
Do you miss anything about living in India?
I don’t know man, I’m just living now one step at a time. Probably not. Maybe the food, some of the street vendors. You can’t get any better food than that.
Who are you skating with these days lately?
Mostly Mark Roberts. Several heads here in Austin. Nick Marty, Calvin Miller, Dharam. Lots of people. Lots of names here.
How did you leave Habitat? What ended up happening?
It was kind of like they stopped paying me and I stopped paying them, really in no particular order. I got a call like, ‘we’re not gonna pay you anymore,’ and that was pretty much the end. I kind of just removed myself really. I probably could have been more proactive if I really wanted to be a part of everything, but I think I just kind of turned out. I mean I’d go on trips a lot of times, but I really wasn’t that stoked. In hindsight I did have everything fucking perfect. Maybe I wasn’t aware enough to realize what I had, that I could have probably kept it going from there.
What is Wake Robbins? Is that a board company?
No, Wake Robbins is kind of just like this creative platform that I started. I don’t really know man, in a way it’s beyond me, but it’s not a board company. I didn’t wanna make Wake Robbins a board company originally, so that’s where Birch came from. The people that came into that environment just like were the manifestation of whatever Birch is. I started it but to really call it my own…it doesn’t seem like it.
It’s more of a group?
Yeah, kind of. It’s Mark Roberts, Jordan Mccullogh, and two new people whose names will be revealed in the upcoming video, very exciting.
How much time do you spend playing sitar?
I spend a lot of time, hours. Just depends where I’m at, I could be playing a couple hours a day. If I actually sit down and start playing, I’ll probably be there for like two hours.
Do you know what you’ll be up to for the rest of the summer?
Right now we’re working on a little edit. Just putting it together and finishing it up. Probably just making incense and setting up at the farmer’s market. That’s what I foresee in my future at the moment.
Are you bummed that you never get to see the ocean living in Texas?
There is a beach in Texas, absolutely. There is a fine coast called the Gulf of Mexico. It has dark brown water, and it’s very murky. But it’s what we got and what we love.
Let’s end with: Any advice for kids out there trying to be sponsored?
You know I’ll say something from what I’m watching and what I’ve seen. This is my truth. Every time that there was a company that I genuinely wanted to get sponsored by, one was iPath, and one was Organika, and I went out of way to get them a tape, and it didn’t work out. It was fine, and then other sponsors actually kinda came to me. First of all I don;t know what the formula is. There’s probably not one, aside from putting your effort and energy into the work that you’re doing, like into the skating itself more than the act of getting a sponsor. And the second that you step outside of that, I feel like it probably degrades the quality of it because you’ve changed from devoting all your energy and efforts into this one thing. So I would just say, fuck shit up 100%. Do not stress out to the best of your ability. Don’t beat yourself up too much. And fuck shit up at the same time.

================================================================================

Bobby Worrest, bs lip
You said you’re on the road right now. Where you at?
I’m living half way in between Vegas and California and right now I’m going to skate pools with that dude Ozzy, he’s kind of like the dude who Tony Hawk or Lance Mountain call to find a pool. He was in the Army and then he was like the head staff at Woodward East for awhile, and that’s where I met him first, I wanna say that was maybe 92? And now he does landscaping and drains pools on the weekends for all the skaters.
So he finds abandoned ones and cleans them and everything?
So here’s the catch, he doesn’t do abandoned ones anymore. What he does is he’ll find a pool, he’ll walk right to the door and just talk to the owners. Like hey, I work with these skaters and I’m willing to drain and clean your pool. Just let us skate it. And he’s always got permission pools lined up, it’s pretty fuckin crazy.
How long have you been on the West Coast? You’re from New Jersey right?
I lived in New Jersey for like ten or twelve years, but I was born in Africa, then I lived in England, Holland, and then we moved to like Connecticut, New Orleans, Florida…
How did you end up working with Powell?
I was shooting photos and I was talking to the brand managers over at Bones, and I was giving him photos and I found out they were hiring for a position with Powell. So I applied one year and didn’t get it, Eric Olson got it but then he quit after a year, so I applied again and got it. That was like eleven or twelve years ago.
Danny Renaud, switch ollie
So you gotta go on a lot of tours with the team? What takes up the most of yr time?
Yeah if there’s a tour I’m organizing it, I’m driving it and basically doing the whole deal. I’ve laid out ads before, and for the last ten years I was shooting photos, but after Stacy came through and did that documentary with Charlie Blair, they were kind of like, “Hey you should shoot more video so I picked up a video camera and I haven’t really been shooting a lot of skate photos anymore. Definitely more filming, photos have been on the back burner except for really gnarly things. But most times I’ll have a photographer come on the session as well and I’ll shoot the video. Kinda been making Instagram and web edits, just trying to document the guys left and right. It’s actually kinda fun.
Does it ever get gnarly having to drive a van full of dudes around?
It just depends on who you have. I had one kid that was kind of an alcoholic, so every morning it was really hard cause he wouldn’t get up, and I’d have to go push him off the bed and kind of drag him to the van. He was just holding everybody up. Then having to baby-sit him at night!
Nobody wants to do that…
Once we were in Canada, and that kid, man he actually started getting hookers. He got so drunk he was picking up hookers at night, and then another day he was passed out in the van and everybody drew on him and he had this big red nose and shit all over his face and he wakes up and walks into this store and starts hitting on this old lady in line, just looking so harsh. I couldn’t imagine what this lady was thinking.
Have you had to set ground rules for the van?
Nothing really strict, sometimes I’ll say last one in the van doesn’t get a soda, or if you don’t finish your food you gotta pay for it. But I’m just fucking with them the whole time.
Where was the last place you guys went to?
It was all the way out to Wichita, Kansas then up north to Canada, and then all the way back down. It was like a two and a half week trip. It was cool.
Donger, ollie
Crazy, any crazy stories from the road?
So the let’s go skate trip we were driving out and our first destination was two days away. So we’re kind of coming up to Vegas and I look at the filmer and I’m like we got extra space in the van and I got this flow kid in Vegas, let’s get him in here. So I call him up and give him 45 minutes to decide if he wants to go on this three week trip, and the kid’s saying he’s got work and he can’t. Then he calls me back twenty minutes later and he’s like, “I just quit my job, my bags are packed. Lets do this. He hops in the van, we drive for a day straight and we get to Amarillo, Texas. If you ever drive through Amarillo on the 40 there’s a perfect water park with this big half pipe. So we go over there and start skating this thing, and next thing I know a cop pulls up. He calls us over and starts calling the owner. The owners on vacation and so his friend comes through and charges the two dudes still skating it with $100,000 in damages! The guys going around pointing at every little thing in the park saying that we did it. This is where it gets fucked up. Because of that charge and just because Texas is so strict, they threw Charlie and Lance in jail! Dude Texas is so strict it’s minimum 180 days if you get caught with a joint! I’m like wait a minute, I’m half way to the first demo on this trip and I’ve got two dudes in jail. I basically had to get a hotel and rent a car, send the rest of the dudes on their way in the van, and wait until the following day to bail them out of jail. So the next day I got to the bail bondsmen and he’s laughing at me like, “Do you know where they are? They’re in the worst jail in Texas.” It ended up costing a total of like $20,000 including lawyer costs, and flying them back out there for court and shit. And that’s all out of George’s pocket to keep these guys from having records. All that hassle and money just to get one clip on a water park no one had ever seen.
That’s an expensive clip.
Yeah man, when I first started they sat me down and told me I’m allowed to get three trespassing tickets a year and they’ll pay for them, but that was the max. I literally had a budget for trespassing.
Ricky Oyola, wallie
So this might be a hard question but what’s one of yr favorite photos that you’ve shot?
Oh, Dahmer doing an ollie. It was the first one I got published. I was interning at Big Brother and I showed Kosick my photos and he didn’t want to look at them. So I walked over to Skateboarder, cause their building was right across the street to talk to Mike Ballard. Jamie Owens was like an intern then too, now he’s the editor of Transworld. So I show Mike the photos, being super shy, and he’s like, “Oh I’ll take this one that one and that one, and here’s some film.” It was something like a hundred fifty rolls of film! I walked out of there like holy shit, what do I do!
So did you ever have photos published in Big Brother after that?
Yeah I had a Chris Cole interview when he was on World Industries, we did a Jersey article too, oh and also a trip to Japan with 5boro.
How was interning for Big Brother?
Well I mean Chris Nieratko’s from Jersey and he had skated my mini ramp and somehow I found out about that so I hit him up and asked him if I could intern for them. He said sure, and so I was basically staying in LA and going over there once a week and doing whatever he told me to do. Sometimes he’d have me wrap his Christmas presents and silly stuff like that. Kosick was actually just starting Jackass at the time, so I got to watch them do all that shit.
Did you ever meet Larry Flint?
No, but I did get a lot of Hustler magazines from working there. Carnie had a whole cabinet just filled with different nudie magazines and at the time there was no internet so I was hyped. I’d just grab a bunch and run out.
What was the last job you had before becoming a TM?
Nothing. I went to college, and handed out flyers on the weekends. I guess I worked some skate camps and stuff in 93 and 94. I built the Visalia skatepark with Tim Payne, and then worked as a counselor for a few weeks. That was cool, I had Karma Tschoseffs kids in my cabin skating and smoking weed and shit.
So who would you say is one of yr favorite skate photographers?
Daniel Harold Sturt and Gaberman. Then Nick Bryant, he shoots black and white wildlife,
he’s not a skate photographer or anything. All my favorite dudes shoot black and white, I don’t know why I shoot anything in color.
Have you ever been locked up?
Yeah, me and Dan Pensyl got locked up for skateboarding in Philadelphia! The cop was like, “Hey man you need to tell them that you’re guilty or you’re gonna get fucked.” and tricked us into think we’re guilty and we had to go to night court. It was so weird.
Danny Cerezini, fs flip
Night court?
Yeah we got locked up, then had to go to night court, and then got released. We were just skating some random spot by his house, not even Love or anything.
I hear a lot of young buls wanting to be team managers Any advice for them?
Uhhhh, get a skill. Probably more video now than photo, but have something before you apply for something like that because they’re going to ask you to do other stuff then just manage the team. A lot of team managers film nowadays, and it’s always better than if you’re just sitting there when you’re out with the guys.

================================================================================

What you cooking?
I’m making some pasta with tomatoes I grew in the backyard with salmon, some peppers, and onions fried up. I like cooking.
What did you do this weekend?
I worked all weekend, I’m working at a juice bar near Rittenhouse Square it’s coming along pretty nicely. Siked to be working, make some extra cash. But I did get a pretty good session in Sunday night, I went down to the skatepark after work.
Did you catch the pig roast thing the Back Street Atlas dudes were doing?
Yeah I caught those dudes at the last second. It was awesome. I got off work and rolled down there and those dudes were partying, they had two kegs, they had the pig roast, it was pretty epic. It was really cool to catch them on their mission. The homie Lex who was running the pig roast hooked me up with the spine of the pig. I was there with my dog and I was just asking him for a to go bowl so he could have some good eating, and he was like “how about this piece,” and held up the spine.
What’s going on at FDR right now?
Big bowl project. The pentagram. It’s awesome. It’s gonna be huge, a big bowl. It’s got nine and a half and one and a half. 9.5′ transition with 1.5′ of vert. In the deep end it’s got a 45 degree hip and a 90 degree hip into the shallow end. And there’s gonna be a capsule in it, a little kidney on the left side of it. It’s gonna be cool.
How far along is it?
We’re probably at the half way point. The homie Scotty came through with his pump. He was building a skatepark up in the Bronx and was on his way down to Mississippi to do another park, so he stopped down at FDR with his pump and compressor and we sprayed about half of the deep end, and finished it in one night. It was amazing. That was my first shotcrete experience. It was cool to see that go down.
Do you remember the first time you skated FDR?
Hmm I guess I was like 11 years old. There was like a ledge and two pyramids, and the CIA bowl was there and the Indian pillar was there and the titties. They didn’t have the half way drop, they went all the way down to the ground at one point.
What about Shortys? First time?
Shortys is awesome, that place is coming along pretty amazingly. I’d say probably three or four years ago. It was cool, it was like three things. They had the pyramid thing with the slate ledge on the top of it, I think that was the first piece to go in. Then the little tire pump bump thing, just the tire with a little bit of concrete around it. And then they had the cinderblock wall ride. It’s really cool seeing that place go up. It’s been probably every weekend for four years that place has had something being poured. It’s amazing I just got a text from Andrew, he said they’re getting a concrete truck tomorrow so it sounds like they’re going big. I wish I could make it up there for it.
How’d you meet Weezy? End up there?
Wayne? Oh he’s the best. He’s cool. I met him at Skate Park of Tampa, from there we skated one night probably till like four in the morning in the smaller section. They got like the hubba ledges, and the wallrides, and the bank to curbs and everything, a nice bowl. And we’re skating that till like 4. He was trying to get this board slide down the hubba for like an hour or so, going at it, again and again and again, I threw a dollar down on the hubba and he did it like five tries later. All his homies started throwing money in too.
Didn’t you go to his house?
Yeah so the next day we rented a car and drove down to Miami and went and skated the streets with Danny Fuenzalida, and he’s friends with him too. We got the go ahead to go skate at Wayne’s spot cause he has all these ramps on his rooftop. We skated there for a while and then that tail drop incident happened.
You know anything about this 5Boro video?
Yeah in the making. I’m siked to be a part of it. It’s been a prety hard couple years with injuries and shit, but I’m happy with what I got. Should be coming out I think in November. November 12th is the premiere at Sunshine theater in New York. I’m hyped cause it’s going to highlight all the younger dudes who had little mini parts in the video prior, and dude, the shit they’ve been doing in New York us just fucked up. Rob Gonyon crushing it. Doogie, Sylvester Eduardo, killing it. Jordan, coming through and crushing it. Karim killing it.
How’d you get on 5Boro?
I don’t know I kinda like grew up into it almost. 5Boro’s been the raddest company out since I was a little kid, you know. I was going to all the contests in New York as a young buck seeing all the 5Boro heads annihilate everything in their path. They had such a presence, It was cool to see coming up. Then one time they started skating this contest in West Chester at Borderline skatepark. Seamus Deegan was the team manager at the time and he was there with Westgate and Anthony Shetler, who were on 5Boro at the time. We went and got Wendys after the contest and talked about it, and it was cool. I got the invite in.
Favorite thing about Philly?
FDR. Having the oasis in South Philly, the get away. The skatepark is the best fucking skatepark in the whole world, but besides that it’s like 300 acres of an awesome park with lakes and wildlife and things to do. Big fields, it’s a cool place. I love it. That’s the best thing about Philly to me.
When was the last time you were out of the country?
I love traveling, it’s the best seeing new people, new places, new cultures. I just went to South America. I did Peru and Ecuador, Central America at the equator, it was pretty sick, that was in early Spring.
Who’d you do that with?
a couple 5Boro people. I guess it was a Redbull trip, they pretty much sponsored the whole thing. Sam McGuire, the photographer homie, lined it up. He killed it. It was awesome; we went to Galapagos Island.
You ever play an instrument or do art?
I’ve been playing harmonica a little bit. Danny Falla got me this cool Supreme harmonica it’s pretty badass. I’ve been playing that every now and again. And art? I actually went to art school. You did too, didn’t you? Didn’t we go to school together? Somebody tied into Skate Jawn went to Tyler.
Yeah a lot of my friends went to Temple.
Yeah I remember I was just about to graduate that year and I remember seeing some skate stuff in like one of the rooms I was critiquing. I was like no way, that’s awesome. I think it was like the beginning of the Skate Jawn thing. It’s pretty sick to see it’s still popping. It’s rad.
If you could take pills to make yourself smarter would you?
Hell no, pills are terrible. Pills are fucked up and it’s a shame what our whole system is all about and it’s pills. We’re in a pretty bad state as humans I feel like, and it’s partially cause of all these pills people take all the time. But no, I’d rather just read a book or look it up. I think smartness comes in experience and just y doing. I’ve always been a doer.

================================================================================

Where did the idea of AV Club stem from?
It has always been the AV Homies and that is what Ann Van is known for. I wanted to make a stand alone project that could be differentiated from all the AV Homies edits that have come out over the years. I wanted to focus on a few homies from the park and make a full length street skating video in order to hype everybody up and remind them that there is more to skate in life than just Ann Van.
How long did it take to figure out a cohesive idea?
I had the idea to mix AV footage together with street skating for a few years but didn’t know how that would work out. I was going back and forth with the idea for a while because it takes a lot longer to get clips in the streets than it does at AV.
What was your timeline like for the video?
I started filming for this video at the end of 2016. The AV footage was piling up, so that’s why I put out the 2018 AV Club edit last year and the majority of the clips in this video are from 2019. The street skating spans from 2016-19.
What is the meaning behind the video?
Everybody is always filming something at the park so in a way it is like an Audio/Video Club.
How much weed was consumed during the making of this video?
Ask young P.
Does Wilkie even skate?
Wilkie may have spent more time skating AV than anybody on earth. I think he’s over it tho. He’s also nearly impossible to film so nobody would ever know unless you catch him in person.
What was your favorite trick to film in the video?
Any Wilkie clip cause its so rare. Big Z in the streets got me hyped as well.
What was your most memorable experience while filming AV Club?
Last minute filming missions with the squad. Finally getting Brian on board to help film after asking him for 3 years.
What do you think of Virtual Reality?
It’s the future of Audio Video. Stay tuned for AVR Club.
How was the premiere?
Amazing! I’m so happy I was able to pull it off and finally get to enjoy watching the video with all my friends.
What was your take away from this project?
Never make a full length skate video again. That’s what I say every time.
Who do you think was the MVP of AV Club?
Brett Napolitan if I had to choose. When I started filming this video it was just Brett and I. It felt like we were the last of the Mohicans. All our other friends had no interest in street skating and would only go to AV if anything. Slowly I got other people on board, but Brett was there the whole time.
What can you say about Ann Van skatepark and why did you feel it was important to create a video series around the park?
I love Ann Van. I’m still great friends with everybody who came together to build some of the first concrete stuff at the park back in 2012. It has really become a family over the years. Also, like I said before, as we’ve gotten older everybody slowly stopped skating street and would only go to the skate park. So, if I wanted to film my friends skate I had to catch them at Ann Van.
What is the skate scene like in NJ?
Speaking for central Jersey, we have a pretty tight knit crew. You can find most anybody at either Ann Van, or Princeton fountain. NJ is like the forgotten land between New York and Philly. We have to work with what we have, so people have a very DIY mentality. Our spots are really crusty and far apart, so you have to drive a lot. There are some serious legends who have come out of Jersey and I have the most respect for them because I know how hard it is to skate here.
What makes Ann Van different from other parks in NJ?
Built by the homies, for the homies! Jesse and Sloan with 5th Pocket Skateparks stepped in early on and took it to a whole new level as well. So appreciative of those guys expertise.
What do you feel was the most difficult part about the making of this video?
Everybody works full time, nobody is pro, this was a passion project that I did on my own dime. It took a lot of time and nobody had the time. That’s why it took so long to make.
What was your favorite spot you found while filming for the video?
Personally I love exploring for spots, especially abandoned ones. So probably the abandoned airplane manufacturing full pipe or the kicker on the graffiti highway from my part.
Is there anything in the works for the future?
Who’s trying to film a part? Hit me up.
What is your vision for the future of the AV Club community?
To stay involved with the town and keep building rad stuff at the park. I want everyone to take pride in Ann Van. Pick up your trash, don’t ruin the ground by starting fires in the middle of the park (whoever did that, you can fuck off.)
Pick up a digital download of the video here.

================================================================================

So are you originally from Reading, PA?
Yes sir. Born and raised.
Apparently a lot of people can’t pronounce your name correctly. Wanna let people know for the record?
My name actually sounds like there’s a “D” in it. You’d say it like Mah-Dee-Oh.
What are your thoughts on the Reading skate scene?
It’s growing really quickly actually. It kinda died for a sec, but after Holistic Skate Shop opened it started back up again. It’s pretty tight knit around here.
Any up and coming rippers in the area?
Of course! All the homies from Reading’s old park, Wooden Waves (God rest its soul), are on the come up for sure. Specifically, Marky Schwartz, Stu Miller, my brother Dante and the Valdez twins. Oh yeah and the little homie Ranciel! Now to think of it, Reading’s got a lot of good dudes!
How’s the vibe at Holistic?
It’s pretty cool. It’s a nice place to catch up with friends and a tight place to hang out when it’s raining.
What’s up with your fast food eating habits? I heard you fuck with Bojangles.
ALL.DAY.LONG. Still got the hat that the manager hooked it up with.
You and the manager homies now?
No doubt! I used to go there after every skate session in the summer so it was just prone to happen haha.
Word. So how long have you been skating?
Man…it’s been like 14 or 15 years. All happened because of my brother definitely gotta thank him.
And how long are you now?
18
Can you tell me a little bit more on how your brother got you into it?
Yeah no doubt. I was like 4, I think, hanging out at my grandma’s house playing Grand Theft Auto or something and he came in and basically told me I had no choice but to try it out. So pretty much I didn’t wanna do it at first, but we all know how addictive it can be and that’s just that. Couple years later, and I’m still addicted to it haha.
So you just graduated. What do you have planned now?
I applied to a couple schools and got accepted, but decided to take a gap year because of skating. I’ve just been skating and traveling and having a ton of fun doing it! Hopefully I can do this forever, definitely would be a fun life.
Where has skating taken you so far?
It’s taken me all over! I’ve been pretty much all around the country because of skating. Unfortunately, never to Europe or Asia though. Someday I hope!
So tell me about winning the Girl open house.
Dude…it was insane. I was just out there for Agenda with my homie Ed and the open house was kinda a last minute thing hooked up by one of their reps, Jamie Walsh and Holistic’s owner JD. But besides that, it was crazy. All the judges were the pros from the team. Malto, Jeron, Rick Howard, Mike Carroll all of them. I was just fanning out the whole time and I skated in the last heat so I was already super tired and kinda overwhelmed with the whole situation. I skated my heat and I didn’t think I made the finals, but I ended up being the sixth man in the 5 man heat. Thankfully I was able to relax a little, skate, have fun, and did well enough to win haha. I still can’t believe all of that happened, and it’s been a few months since that went on. Definitely one of my favorite memories/experiences!
How about Adidas Skate Copa/Damn Am.
It was pretty fun! It was the first time I had been to New York so that was pretty tight. Unfortunately, I rolled my ankle 5 minutes into the sesh and that sucked, but my homie Marky destroyed that contest. Crooks nollie tre and back feeble tre flip…Jesus. Damn Am was nuts. Lots of really good dudes but so crowded and humid. Wasn’t really my thing, but I got to eat some real good barbecue, hang out with my dad and Marky, and had some fun times at my uncle Alex’s house! Atlanta’s so sick for skating!
Did you ever get into deep shit in high school?
Honestly, no. I kinda flew under the radar at my school. Wasn’t really into their politics and bullshit. And plus, when you’re a skateboarder around here, people think you pull rabbits outta hats and shit haha. No one really understands it, but oh well. But yeah, no trouble. I spent the time skating instead.
Where do you see yourself in 5 years?
Hopefully living in L.A. skating like always, and hopefully am or pro? That’d be the dream!
Word man. You got any shout outs?
Yeah I just wanna thank my mom and dad for always supporting my skateboarding habits. My brother for getting me into it, and still shredding with me everyday. My girlfriend Bryn for holding it down for the past year and a half. I’d like to thank Ryan Kochel, Wooden Waves, Kyle Nicholson, Matt Rathman. Zach Majors, Nate Schneick, Kyle Miller, Marky Schwartz, Taylor and Christian Brenheiser, Betsy, Kandy and Chris, Stu Miller, Sean Cochrane, Nicky B, Quinton Leister, One Finger, Jamie Walsh, Jason from Girl, Shawn Harris, Lamar Tees, Gage Griffith, The DynaKnapps, Ed Delahunty, Fosh, Terrell Robinson, Bryan Herman, Pat Rumney, Erik Hamamoto, Braydon Szafranski, Brian Hansen, Neen Williams, Dustin Bell, Red Mohawk, Bam Margera, Supra Footwear, Girl Skateboards, Holistic Skateshop,
Skate Jawn
, and the city of Reading.

================================================================================

What you been up to today?
I just got done skating Stone Cliffe the Reading skatepark.
What’s Reading PA like?
Its a pretty sick city! Its kinda small and theres a lot of hood parts in the city but overall its not too bad.
Are there a lot of homeless and shit?
Yea theres some homeless people but definitely not as many as Philly or New York.
What’s there to do there besides skate?
Well theres a lot of good food in the Reading area! Theres the Reading Philles baseball team. Two Malls. The Schuylkill River. Theres a lot goin on here haha!
Last place you were kicked out of, not for skating?
My last job”¨”¨.
What happened?
I was working as a groundskeeper for this apartment complex and they had just hired a new supervisor for my crew and the guy was a total asshole. So the one day I was just fed up with him and I threw a brick at him. haha
Did it hit him?
Na and I’m kinda glad it didn’t cause I would have gotten locked up forsure!
Where do you normally skate?
Anywhere between Reading, Lancaster, and Philly.
Favorite thing about Philly?
The people! All the skaters down there are really sick and even just the people that live there are cool too. Oh and Skate Jawn!
What do you think made skating seem cool to you when you started?
The freedom of it! No coaches or teammates telling you what to do and when you would mess up you could always try again till you landed it. ”¨And a bunch of my friends were skating at the time too.
What’s the furthest you’ve ever went on a skate trip?
Barcelona. I flew out there solo to meet up with JD.
How was that?
It was the sickest trip ever! We got to skate all the famous Barci spots and the food was bangin too!
What was he doing out there?
I think he was studying abroad through Temple out in Rome. Then he had a couple of weeks off and invited me to come to Barcelona with him.
How long have you known JD?
Around 10 years
What’s Holistic skateshop like?
Its the sickest shop!! Theres so many of the best brands and the best vibes in there. JD is the man for opening that place!
Ever meet Taylor Swift?
Hahaha I don’t think so. She moved out of Reading when she was like 12 or something. But theres people around here trying to cling on to her and be her friend and shit.
Ever go skate the west coast?
Yea I’ve been to cali twice. It was fun but nothin like the East Coast. I gotta have that crust!
Do you film?
Yea I film a little. I picked up a Sony VX3 a couple months back and I’ve been messing with it here and there. But I mostly go out with Nicky B and he does all the filming. He’s actually in Cali at the moment so me and the homie Ryan Kochel have been filming a little Hi8 video.
What’s the worst you’ve ever got in trouble for skating?
Oh man I hope my parents don’t read this part haha!”¨ Well a couple of years ago I was skating this rail in Lancaster and I was trying really hard to land some trick. And sometimes I get really pissed and freak out kinda like Kerry Getz used to. And I got really close to landing it and this cop showed up. So I pretty much flipped out on this cop and she called for backup and they arrested me.
For what?
I guess disorderly conduct but luckily I never got charged with anything. They let me go from the police station and that was it. So I took it as a lesson learned and never flipped out that bad again!
When was the last time you focused a board?
2 weeks ago. I used to do it all the time but I think I’ve mellowed out a lot.”¨”¨ There was one point were I focused like 7 or 8 boards in one week. Yea now I just think about younger kids with thrashed boards and how they could use my deck and it keeps me from breaking it.
Alright favorite thing about summer?
The heat, chillin with my friends outdoors, grillin, the beach, and shreddin!
You go to the beach a lot?
Na its been a while but I love the ocean!
What do you think of longboarders/snake boarders/other alt boards”¨?
I think their kinda lame and sometimes I tell them to get a real skateboard. Board”¨scooters are the worst!
W”¨orst habit?
Biting my nails”¨”¨.
Favorite ramp to skate?
Lanc Bowl
What do you do to contribute to the community?
The occasional DIY spots.
Ever have yr ass kicked?
I don’t think so. But I am kinda scrawny so it probably wouldn’t be hard.
Shout outs?
I gotta say thanks to my family, the Reading homies, Lanc homies, Philly homies, BEVheads, and last but not least Nicky B for holding it down in the best and worst of times!

================================================================================

Photos and interview by Jonathan Becker
So what’s good? You came over on the bus today?
I was actually at this girl’s house then I took the train over here.
Word, you got anything specific you want to skate? You were talking about some rail.
Yeah, some bump to rail by Wash. I’m not sure if I have really seen people skate it.
When are you and Daniel (Trapani) going to drop more “Go-Go” merch?
We are working on something right now. I want to drop some shirts by the end of the summer, but we have a good Fall/Winter collection that we are working on.
I feel like it’s been a couple of years already, how long has it been?
2019 is when we started. Then we had one year where we really were not doing much, then I just came over here to NY and seen everyone doing their thing and I was like “fuck it, I’m going to make clothes again”. It’s something that I really like doing. It brings me satisfaction seeing people be like “bruh, I like that shirt” and I’m just thinking “I made this in my basement today”.
Are you going to stay in the streets this winter or you going back to the fuckin slopes?
Uh snowboarding? Honestly, if I can afford to snowboard then fuck it I’m snowboarding. That’s my answer to that but snowboarding is expensive.
I feel like you and I never really talked about how you met Brian and got involved with CAPS (Crazy Ass Paterson Skaters), how did that work out for you?
Brian doesn’t remember the first time I met him but it was at my old school and it had this spot. He was waxing it up and doing front tail slides and I think I was doing frontside 50’s and I had never seen anyone do a tail slide before. Back in the day everyone met up at TD so that’s where we really started talking. He seen me do a kickflip backside 50 and he was like “Now you’re skating with us” and I was like “I guess”.
How old were you then?
I started skateboarding at thirteen, so kickflip back 50 was probably like fifteen.
You moved over here from Jamaica, then lived in Paterson and Hackensack. Which has been your favorite spot?
I really did like living in Paterson, it was just like where I grew up and where I became who I was and who I am til this day. I feel like in Hackensack I was kind of a different person almost, I really didn’t know who I was. Paterson is where I found myself, definitely Paterson.
So you wouldn’t have met everyone by the time that you moved to Paterson.
In sixth grade I met Lil Cris and there was a whole little skate crew there by school 24, which is really lucky because I could have gone to any school in thirty schools. I just chose this one because I liked the architecture. There was a lot of glass and I thought it looked modern and liked it. I just so happened to be skating to the school one day before school even started and I seen this group of kids in front of me. We ended up going in the same direction to the same school and it has been history ever since.
What was worse back in the day, not being able to hit the homies up in real time because we didn’t have phones, or having to find boards and shit that we could skate?
The thing is, you didn’t have to hit the homies up back in the day because everyone was at TD. In New York you gotta hit the homies up, in Paterson, you skate around to a couple of spots because there are like four, you are going to see someone. Then you’re like “where the homies at?” then they are like “Oh they are up by international” and you find the homies. Back in the day boards were scarce and shit. If you snapped your board you were out for four to five days. You were skating the worst boards ever, straight trapezoids.
I feel like Peanut and all the jits don’t really know how good they have it.
They really don’t.
If you were to get dropped off somewhere random with no phone today, do you think you are still getting back home in a timely fashion?
In NJ it is kinda easy. 100%. I don’t think I can get lost, not just in Jersey, but in the Northeast in general. I don’t think there is any way I can get lost, it’s like impossible. How am I going to get lost? Like in the woods?
I don’t know fool, people got a poor sense of direction. What really had me weak was that one day Omar’s car broke down dumb far and you didn’t wait so you just started to push back to the park.
I just had this thing where I used to go on far skates looking for spots and I had kind of skated towards that area. I did not know the area exactly; I knew that if I kept going on in this direction I would eventually get to an area that I skated to a while ago. I would just take one street and just go down a hot five, eight, maybe ten miles. What is it like four miles from Hackensack to Paterson?
I feel like it’s maybe six.
Speaking of the woods, when are you picking up a fishing rod again?
I was trying to get back into fishing the other day. I had gotten a fly rod because I thought I was into fly fishing but then it became too niche and it’s not even worth it. Fishing is already hard then to make it more difficult… I just got a little bit of money, I might just buy a rod.
Do you plan on doing any carpentry any time soon or is that a dub now?
Bro, that is not a dub it’s just harder than you think to get a job in carpentry. It’s like you literally got to take time out of your life to go to a thirty hour OSHA class then you have to go to another ten hour scaffolding class. That’s pretty much it. I have been applying to jobs for anything.
If we could squeeze in another trip this summer where should we go?
Probably Baltimore. That’s the only place we haven’t really been.
If you could erase a trick from everyone’s head what would it be?
Hospital flips shouldn’t exist. It is not a pretty trick and there is no finesse in it. Just shouldn’t be done.
Favorite video part and why?
That is tough. I don’t want to be cliché and say Ishod Chronicles 2 although I did watch that part over and over and over. I don’t want people to hate me if I say Nyjah’s “Fade to Black”. That is a great part. One of the greatest video parts of all time. Switch big heel Hollywood 16 is one I’m not letting go. Favorite part? I’ll just be corny and say Antwuan Dixon Baker 3. Anything that Beagle filmed during that time is so perfectly edited. Good filming, no cheap tricks, that whole project was done so well.
I know you like (video) editing and stuff like that, do you pay attention to all the fine details as much as the skating during videos?
If one is off it throws the whole thing off. How far the filmer is with the fisheye too. Are they cutting off the whole body, or cutting off heads? Does the stair set look good? You see things from different angles and you are like oh he made it look big, you can really make the skater look good. I feel like that is really the job of the filmer, trying to make the skater look as good as possible really. That’s why I feel like Strobeck is so popular, he does his thing the best. He has this way of making simple things look good. A lot filmers can’t pull it off.
Thanks for doing this!
Shout out Daniel Trapani, that’s his government.

================================================================================

You can sum up this video in the title alone,
Maine and Simple
. Well the Maine part cause skating in Maine isn’t always that simple. Jimmy Collins was the mastermind behind the video. Like most local videos you film with all of your homies and eventually you’ll have a video. It was really cool to see the amount of pride that skaters from Maine have since Maine isn’t known for anything other than lobster and blueberries. With harsh winters and limited spots the skaters in this video showcased how skating in Maine goes laid back and never taking it to serious. I was really stoked to see the amount of skaters from Maine in the video. Dave Labbe (Not Dave Crabb), Alex Winslow, Ben Cironi, Dave Green, Jordan Pride, Elias Simonetti all have full parts. Mike Gustafson, Jay Brown, Toebee Parkhurst also had a fair amount of footage as well. The best thing about the video is that Jimmy really showed how the Maine skate scene is and really brought a lot of skaters together. Anytime when a local video comes out and it improves the skate scene you know it’s sick. Take a half hour crack a PBR and sit back and watch a video that’s truly about skateboarding. No over the top filming here or artsy bullshit just true Maine street skating. -Travis Storer
What gave you the motivation to make a skate video with a real Maine feel to it?
Well I went to school for video production so I had access to a camera so I just started filming my homies skating. I figured I would just put it in a video at some point.
How hard was it to be basically the only filmer for the video? Did you kind of want to do it on your own or did it just kind of worked out that way?
It wasn’t really that hard. There were sometimes I wish there was a second filmer to get some second angles on some of the tricks but whatever.
What were some of the problems you had to overcome while making the video?
The biggest problem I had was trying to get organized. I shot something like 60 tapes for the video plus the footage that Chris gave me that I had to convert so I could use it. There was just so much footage and it was a bit overwhelming at times.
Any favorite parts or certain tricks that blew your mind?
My favorite clip in the video is the line with Jordan at the medians. I remember filming it and seeing the car and thinking that the line was over but he just went around and I didn’t stop filming and it worked out.
Jordan Pride was kind of a late addition to the video but damn his part is great. Was there anyone else you wanted to have a part or more footage in the video of anyone particular?
Yeah Jordan came up to me after I finished the promo and wanted to get a few clips in the video. We ended up skating and hanging out and got a few clips. I wish I had more footage of Mike G to give him a full part.
Overall how do you feel how the video came out? I know there must of been some pressure behind all of it this was the most hyped up video for a while, Did you start getting the “Madness” during the filming/ Editing?
Was there a lot of hype? The pressure wasn’t really that bad I guess, or maybe I just didn’t notice it. The worst part about the video is that it took so long to come out, some of the footage in the video is over 4 years old. I didn’t really have any “madness”, unless you count working 3 days straight just to get it done.
Got any new projects your working on now or plan too? You still plan on helping me with the Maine Skateboarding video right? Haha
Yeah man I’ll send over some footage for the Maine skateboarding video. I don’t really have any skate projects right now, its winter and I’m working in the woods and it’s pretty hard to skate up here.
Where can people see more of your work such as a website/blog/ etc?
Well I have a portfolio site that I set up to try and get some work in the film industry, jimmycollins.wordpress.com. I also have a blog that I post photos I take with my phone, you can check it at shitfoot.tumblr.com.
Any last words would you like to thank anyone that helped make the video and this interview possible for you?
I just want to thank everyone for being so patient with the video. I know it took way too long to get it done.
Last but not least how can people get a copy of the video? I know you want to wait a while before throwing it online.
Right now if people just want to send me their address I’ll send them out a copy. Find me on facebook or through the Maine Skateboarding facebook page. I’m going to put it up online at some point but I’d rather have something that you can watch on a tv instead of on a computer for right now.

================================================================================

Where are you from?
The mutha fucking East Coast.
Favorite thing to skate?
Pools.
Best pool you’ve skated?
The yuppie (RIP). Those in the know got to shred, those who weren’t missed out.
Electric or gas?
Electric is way less hassle. I’m working on a battery powered pump that will change everything!
Got a good Freddy story?
All the good ones are a little too incriminating for print but I will say this, only Freddy could get pulled over three times in one night, by the same cop, with no good excuse except that we were trying to pump out a pool at 1 a.m. And somehow we got out of it every time. Only Fred!
Do you have a roof over your head yet?
Yup, bought a house in Pittsburgh… No more sleeping in the car.
Ever been too high?
Not possible.
Longest time you’ve spent of the road?
Four years without a home was like an endless road trip.
How long have you known Fritz?
Too long.
Is it ever ok to steal?
Only from corporate chains. Leave the mom and pop shops alone.
Should pools be shared or kept secret? Spots?
Always secret, real gangsters don’t need to talk.
Camera set up?
Nikon with some flashes.
Skate set up?
Oj’s, Indy’s, Antihero.
Morning or night?
Depends…Mornings for a mission, night time for cruising.
First time you got drunk?
1992…Ouzo from my parents liquor cabinet.
Shoot film much?
Load, shoot, develop, and scan? No thanks.
How’d you get into photography?
Dumb luck.
Most stairs you’ve ever hucked?
Big 11 in downtown Detroit 2001. I keep it low to the ground these days.
Craziest thing you’ve ever seen John Gardner do?
Everything he does is crazy, risking it all, just for the stoke. I truly believe he just likes to scare himself.
Best substitute for a pillow?
A skateboard works well for a street nap but a shoe wrapped in a jacket is my choice for an over-nighter.

================================================================================

Where do you live?
I live in SF, it’s a fun city that never runs out of spots as long as you like to push around in the street, skate the hills, and explore every inch of neighborhood.
What’s Circle-A Skateboards about? Why are you down with them?
When it comes to skateboarding, I am into people doing it their own way, recognizing and respecting each other’s style and approach, pursuing the endless possibilities your environment presents, and treating every moment on your board as if it is a gift. Circle-A supports me with my outlook.
What was your favorite skate video of the past year?
I really liked the Minuit Video. It was filmed entirely at night. Skating at night feels sneaky.
What’s the best part about Cali?
By far the weather. SF particularly has some amazing sun and fog. Even on the worst day here, the smell of the fog, and skating down the street is awesome.
Worst part about Cali?
8.5% sales tax.
Have you ever been to Philly? What was your impression?
Yes, I have. Philly and SF have a lot in common. I had the pleasure of being shown around the city by some of Philly’s greats: Ricky Oyola, Roger Brown, AJ Mazzu, Sergei Trudowski, Damian Smith, Brian Smith, Vern Laird, and many others. Skating in and spending time in Philly helped define how I skate and how I look at skating and my environment.
What’s a normal day skating for you?
I have been skating at night the most actually. Also, I have been trying to skate close to home. I like to not drive from spot to spot, but have the chance to really be “on the ground.” Just like Sonny said in
A Bronx Tale
, “You know why I live in this neighborhood? Availability. I wanna stay close to everything.”
You know the guys at
48 Blocks
?
I’m down for
48 Blocks
. Leland knows good skating. I just did a clip with
48 Blocks
called “My Zip.” It was entirely filmed in my home zip of 94115. It was refreshing to look at what you had to work with, and see what you can make of it.
Got a good GMos story?
One time I suggested Bikram yoga to him. He said it sounded interesting. Later that day, we went out skating, and after 10 minutes I looked at him and said, “You probably don’t need Bikram, you sweat plenty the old fashioned way. Gershon is a consistent skater and individual. He is very creative off his board and a beast on it.
Ever skated outside of the country? Where’s the coolest place you’ve been?
I lived in Costa Rica almost for a year. The skaters there have heart.
Who’s your favorite rapper/skater?
There are too many to choose from.
Thanks: Thuy, Bob, Gershon, FTC, Circle-A, Leland, Roughneck, Solitary Arts, Iron Horse Wheels, Rockstar Bearings, Mecky, Vincenzo, Ando, Libby, Greg, and the San Francisco Skate Club.

================================================================================

What’s up Dakota, where are you at now? Where are you headed?
That is a great question. I’m leaving Long Beach for some much needed change and going to seek some more nature up north. Change up the scenery and just skate a bunch. Get into some new patterns, all to better my mental health.
You’ve been leading yoga classes over insta during the quarantine for the SF Skate Club and the Ben Raemers Foundation. How’d that come together?
SF Skate Club is a rad youth club that does a lot for the youth in the city. Being good role models and just giving kids a safe and creative space to go to. Such a great place and they wanted me on board to guide the kids through a little practice. The Ben Raemers Foundation, man just a beautiful foundation that Rob Mathieson started. They wanted me there to do a class for them and it was so rad man. It’s weird stepping into a teacher role as I will forever be a student, but it slows me down. It’s a meditation for me. I have to find what feels right and bring the people in on that feeling. A few people hit me up after the classes and it’s always so rewarding. It grounds me. It’s such a hippie word to use in the skate world, but it’s super rad when people comment after the class saying it makes them feel better or helped them get through their day. That shit fills up my soul!
Your most recent part had some pretty unique tricks. What’s your take on putting out parts now?
These days videos are coming out so fast and it feels like everyone’s just trying to top each other’s last part. My goal is to just do me and try to get creative and be unique and not try to compare myself to other skaters. Shout to Austin Leleu for editing it!
You’ve been rocking Enjoi boards lately, who’s hooking it up?
Louie Barletta’s the man. I’ve known him for a little bit. Met him and then stayed with him once. When I got back to skating I didn’t have a board sponsor and I didn’t really care to get one. I was just dying to skate after a year and a half of being injured. But I saw a shaped board they were making that Ben Raemers actually shaped and I just wanted every little bit of it. I wanted to ride a board with a lot of attention to detail. So I hit Louie up and was like, “how can I get some of these boards” and then we just stayed in touch and he was down to keep giving me boards. I’m kinda just flowing with it, staying in touch with them, skating, repping. I love the brand. So many legends have rode for them! Marc Johnson, Jerry Hsu, Louie! Best video part to ever come out was by Louie.
I’m still trying to figure out how old Louie is!
Can’t comment on that. I don’t even know. I don’t think he even knows!
Let’s talk about your injury. What happened?
There’s so much we can talk about. I tore my ACL and my meniscus in 2018. Got taken out of skateboarding for like a year and a half. It was my first knee injury and that shit was real. I had to put skateboarding aside for a second to focus on other things. I had to keep sane somehow and I couldn’t keep sane by going out on sessions. So I had to distance myself and went on a spiritual journey to try and keep sane.
How was it stepping away from skating and then jumping back into it?
For me, I need breaks from it. It seems healthy. For a year and a half I gave my body a break from slamming on concrete. I think that alone helped. I let my body heal in so many ways and got into eating healthy and organic. Just taking care of myself.
I see you’ve been building and selling boxes/ledges recently. You’re staying mad productive during quarantine.
Hustle is real in this time man! I’m just trying to stay afloat and keep some sort of money coming in. I always try to get under the table money and I love working with wood. I used to build these skateboard chairs. I made myself a ledge during quarantine for the first time ever in my life and was like “that was fun, maybe some homies still want one?” Hustle is real!
Glad to see you’re making it happen. Thanks for chatting with me. Any last words/shoutouts?
Black Lives Matter. Let’s work to end racism in this world! Loving vibrations to all. In these times of hatred we need so much love. Thank you to skateboarding for being alive. Support your local skate shop. If you are struggling through depression please seek help!

================================================================================

Interview by Jawn Doe.
Where are you from and where are we right now?
Vancouver, Canada is where I was born, but I grew up in the Seattle area and right now we’re in Bushwick I think? We just moved to Bedstuy six months ago.
You lived at the Dope Planet house?
I only lived there for two months between houses. That warehouse started after I had Milo so it wasn’t a real good place to have a newborn baby. But we lived like a mile away from it in an apartment. I lived there for a little bit between spots too. It’s kinda just been our clubhouse.
Who started it/built the ramp?
Our friend Max Hohlbein, he pretty much did 99% of it himself. He’s a beast. He found the spot, built the ramp, built all the other ramps that are there. Everyone else helped but he’s like the mastermind there.
Milo: Know what? You should check out my Switch, it has Supermario 64…
We’re talking about the warehouse, what do you have to say about the warehouse?
Milo: That’s one of my favorite spots in Seattle. I lived there. Andrew Reynolds actually saw me. I was sleeping on the bed.
Reynolds came through to skate it this one summer when we were staying there. Our room was on the top of the ramp, right by the coping when you open the door. I opened the door and he looked in the room and there’s like a two year old kid sleeping in there. He was tripping.
How many people live there?
There’s like eight rooms in the warehouse, and they have the house next door, it’s like a four bedroom house. So it’s like 10-15 people in the complex, or whatever.
Milo: Our friends Josh and Pat used to live at the warehouse but they moved with us and now they’re our roommates.
How long have you known Nolan?
I met Nolan through my friend Josh in like 2007 so however long that is.
Was Welcome already a thing?
Welcome started right after I met Nolan. He got me my first sponsor, House of Kasai, who he skated for before Welcome. You know that vert skater Lester Kasai? That was who Nolan used to skate for, and then the dude that worked for that company was friends with Nolan and they started Welcome together basically. That was right after I met Nolan. We all lived in a house together right around that time.
What’s up with the edits you made for Welcome?
Well Welcome was pretty much in the beginning just me, Nolan, Josh, and Max. We all lived together so we would just make YouTube videos. Had a VX and just made crappy videos. There’s a lot. All of us had our own YouTubes pre-Instagram and we would just make videos all the time so there’s hundreds of them.
What did you get into first, taking photos or videos?
I got a camera when I was sixteen I think and took some photos but filming was way more fun. So probably video first and then photos came back.
You got more into photos recently?
Yeah the summer before Milo was born around seven years ago is when I borrowed a real fisheye from my friend. He had an actual 15mm Canon lens like the nice one everyone shoots skate photos with. I just put it on some shitty film camera and the photos were just hella good cause it’s a nice lens. I just got hyped on it. Then we all learned how to develop film together at the warehouse and made a little darkroom in the closet there. Me and my friend Pat and Ryan got hella into it.
What’s the best thing about Seattle?
Skate parks and nature basically. Like you can do a day trip in any direction and it’s gonna be a cool place to swim and like five different skateparks that are all hella good. That’s mostly what I like about it.
What brought you back to NY?
Just family stuff with Milo and his mom basically. Also just a new adventure, something fun.
You have a lot of stuff on YouTube. Do you have a favorite channel? You watch the Gonz on there?
Yeah the Gonz videos you can’t even watch half of them. Nolan’s YouTube channel, he doesn’t make them anymore I don’t think, but his is like that too. Some of them are super sick and some of them you can’t even watch them. So maybe Nolan’s channel. I like watching my old videos too cause now it’s been long enough I don’t even remember what’s in half of them.
Do you have an edit you remember really having fun making?
I guess those Dope Planet videos there was kinda effort involved, but most of those videos were just film for one day and then make a video that night. Go home, import the footage, just pick a song that was the same length as the edit. Nolan taught me that trick. Finish editing the video basically and it’s 3 and a half minutes or something go in your iTunes and find a song that’s 3:30 and that’s it. There wasn’t a bunch of production for the most part.
Have you driven cross country?
Just this last summer on my way out to New York. Me and Milo spent like three weeks driving. But I’ve done the West Coast hella times, up and down the West Coast that’s the one we’d always do.
Do you have a favorite place to take photos or any memorable ones?
I can tell you half of my photos are the fisheye on pool coping or something and that always seems to work pretty good. Most of them it’s not as much where it is, it’s just the photo. We shot photos in that big boat hull that’s in Seattle with Simon. They use it to make big ass yachts or something. That’s a crazy spot that exists. We skated some other crummy ones before that but that one’s like an actual big vert ramp basically.
Do you like shaped boards?
I can skate anything but pretty much I went through that whole shape phase and realized that like an 8.5 DLX board is the best kinda skateboard pretty much. That’s what I’m on or 8.75 sometimes.
How do you decide between film and digital?
I’ll pretty much only shoot film. It’s what I want to do and more fun. If the rare occasion where someone hits me up to shoot for an ad or something, I guess I’ll shoot it with the digital camera. Maybe if it’ll take a while but normally I don’t really shoot stuff like that either. It’s all pretty spontaneous. Like using the flashes and stuff is cool but I never want to carry that stuff around, so I never use em.
How long did you work at Dominos?
I actually worked at Dominos for like three years. That was right when I had Milo and didn’t have a job or any kind of prospects or you know, experience. I had just been skating. Had not had a job in forever so I was like, guess I’ll fuckin work at Dominos. It was so sick dude. I couldn’t believe it. Anyone knows those delivery jobs are so easy but I’d make tons of money just in downtown Seattle. Everything was all close together, all the deliveries were hella close, everyone tipped real good, and then I would always just take pizzas down to the spot, West Lake where we’d always skate. So work nights and then go skate West Lake after and hook everyone up with pizza.
You’ve only been living in New York for a few months, how do you like it so far?
It’s been super sick dude, it doesn’t even rain. It has been cold but I’ve already been skating with all those bowl house guys. It’s been fun and shout out to all those guys. It’s been fun, just trying to skate. I work a bunch and have Milo so it’s a lot of doing the same stuff in a different place but, I am looking forward to next summer and skating and exploring this whole northeastern part of the country.
How old is Milo?
He is six.
It’s rad he’s into skating and you get to skate with him. How has having a kid changed your life?
Obviously it’s all about him now pretty much. I’m super stoked that he tolerates skating and enjoys it for the most part. It definitely makes it so there’s less free time for me, or we’ll just go to the playground instead of skating. It’s awesome. It is super fun, it’s just different.
Would you be bummed if he quit skating?
I would be bummed, but I wouldn’t be that bummed. It just makes it so I can skate more so that’s nice, but really he could do whatever he wants. For some reason he’s into baseball, I don’t know where he got that from. But whatever he wants to do as long as it’s outside, because he is also into video games which is the only thing I don’t like. He is just trying to be inside all day playing video games. As long as he wants to go outside it’s all good.
If you could go anywhere, where would you go?
That is a hard one, maybe go to Europe or something because I have never been over there. Realistically, what I am looking forward to being able to do is go to Montreal and Toronto because I have never been up there. Also skate all the cool crumby skateparks that are around in Vermont and Connecticut. That is probably coming soon.
What is some advice for someone moving to NY?
I can’t give advice about moving to New York.
Why not? You just did it.
I don’t know anything, it just worked out good for me but maybe I got lucky or something.
What is some advice for anyone trying to get into filming or photos?
As far as the film stuff goes, it is not expensive if you just do it at home so if you’re into doing that, it is fun. It’s not that hard to do and it just costs way less so I guess don’t be scared to try that. All my friends are hella good at skating and I think that helps if you want to take skate photos, but that isn’t much advice.
Or just use what you have around you, like if all your friends are musicians…
True, also you don’t have to have a nice camera, but you can.

================================================================================

What were you up to in Las Vegas?
My mom went there with her sisters, so my girlfriend and I figured we’d drive up for a day to visit since we live in Huntington Beach.
Did you gamble?
Yeah, I just played the penny slots. I spent like a total of $5. Went up to $7 then back down to zero.
Are you from Indiana or Ohio?
I was born in Cincinnati, but my parents moved to Indiana when I was born. So I’ve lived in Lawrenceburg, IN  my whole life before I moved.
What was it like growing up skating around there?
My friend Cody Heill and I grew up skating together, and he lived right down the street. He has been one of my dudes from the very beginning. But for a while, we had different friends here and there from like age 11-14. During that time, I’d go to Skatetopia out in Ohio with my friend Morgan on the weekends when his dad would take us. It’s that real gnarly anarchy punk place. Eventually Cody and I started hanging out more again. Then, we heard there was a skateshop opening in Lawrenceburg – that’s how we met Joe Hughes.
Who is he?
The shop, Blacklist, is all Joe. He’s the man, and was always nice to us when older guys probably weren’t. Also Joe was the king of S.K.A.T.E, nobody could beat him. A lot of the desgin stuff will come from our friends and artists we know though. Blacklist actually used to be called X.W.P, or Xtreme Woodworking Products, like way back in the early 2000s. Joe worked there for a bit, bought it, and rebranded it to Blacklist sometime between 2004 to 2006.
In addition to the shop, are there any good parks in the area that influence the scene?
In Ohio, there’s Local Skate Park, which is a pretty small indoor park inside an old car garage. Then there’s Ollie’s in Kentucky. That one’s huge, so it kind of blew my mind the first time I went there.
Were you a park kid?
Usually I went to parks on the weekend since we had to get one of our moms to drive us. Instead, Cody and our little crew would make our own ledges. One time we got two buckets and nailed these 2x4s along with this thin coping. It wasn’t very good, but at the time it was the best thing.
Did you make regular trips to Cincinnati, Indianapolis, or Louisville?
I lived right across the river from Cincinnati, only a 30 minute drive. We would mostly go to Cincinnati, sometimes Louisville, but not so much Indianapolis. But yeah, back then we’d skate Cincinnati once a week because my friend’s mom worked there, so every Thursday she dropped us off by her work. It’s a big bust now, but the P&G building had a bunch of marble ledges, granite slabs, and manual pads.
What made you move to Huntington Beach?
My girlfriend got a job in California. We asked a couple friends, then all moved a month and a half ago. But I’ve been on multiple skate trips out west before, and every time I came home I’d wonder why I was even going back.
Do you have any advice for skaters in the Midwest thinking about moving to either coast?
Make sure you have some ducks in a row because it’s very expensive. Save up.
How did you end up on Hella Cool?
When I was 20, I got out of trying to finish college. I also felt like I had to put skating on the back burner too. I was thinking about just joining the military, but there was a block party Blacklist hosted, and James Kelch came promoting his new company. I was just skating the bowl, then he came up to me asking if I wanted to ride for him. That was almost 5 years ago.
You were just ripping a bowl at this block party then he put you on?
It was the first and only time I’ve done this, but I was airing over my friend as he was grinding underneath me, both of us going frontside. I’d air straight up, then come back in behind him. That’s how James and I started talking was over that, so I guess it stoked him out.
Got any good stories from hanging out with James Kelch?
Pretty much whenever I hang out with him we just walk right into events, and no one questions it. I’ve seen dudes freak out asking him to take pictures. During the Chicago stop for the Stay Flared tour, we had breakfast with a bunch of those dudes. Seeing James and Mike Carroll hang out after 10 years was like two brothers seeing each other after a long time.
Are you pro for Hella Cool?
Yeah, but I don’t enter pro contests or anything. Kelch just wanted to put my name on a board. He gave me royalties for the first couple boards that came out, but after that it was a mutual agreement, like it’s just for fun. I think that was his goal, to just get me more amped on it. Like I said, when I first got on Hella Cool, I was days away from signing papers to join the military. But he was like, “Is that what you wanna do? You’re good at skating, I think you should keep pursuing this.” He opened the door of skateboarding back up for me.
Is there too much skating posted to Instagram?
It can definitely be washed out sometimes. It’s not that bad. Everyone is just trying to figure it out ya know?  But Instagram can definitely influence someone to change their style just because of how it looks on someone else.
Do you want to thank anyone?
My friends and family, Joe Hughes and James Kelch, and everyone I grew up skating with for pushing me and having fun.

================================================================================

What’s your name, age, and where are you from?
Alec Spinosi, 21, Helena, Alabama.
How did you get into skating?
My dad and uncle grew up skating. Definitely weren’t big on the whole football thing.
That’s sick. Coming from Alabama, the football thing must have been pretty big around your parts?
Yeah, it’s all about tailgating and Sunday football out here.
What skate shop or companies are hooking you up?
Faith Skate Supply, Real Skateboards, Thunder, Spitfire, Nike Sb, Bronson Bearings, and Darkroom.
How did you get hooked up with the Deluxe crew?
The homie Mike hit up Cody Rosenthal at Deluxe and he put in a good word with Zig. He was sick enough to start sending me gear.
Is skating your full time gig or are you hustling it at a day job?
I’m currently hustling the valet biz. I work doubles almost everyday. Pull up.
Dang, what’s the nicest car you’ve whipped on the lot?
I’ve driven a couple of Bentleys. It’s a pleasure, but definitely nervous every time. That’s a lot of responsibility. I hope you have insurance!
Living lavish! So your moving to Cali, why the move?
Just to change things up. I’ve been living in Alabama my whole life and feel like I need to get out before I get caught in the mix. I don’t want to be 50 working a 9-5 in Helena.
Good luck on the big move! Any last shoutouts?
My mom for all of the love and support, my Uncle Tim, Peter Karvonen at Faith, Zig, Nate Alton, Mike Sinclair, Daniel Lawson, Skate Jawn, all the Alabama homies, and everyone who has helped out along the way.

================================================================================

Where are you from? What’s the skate scene like there?
Houston, in the ’80s the scene was big, ’90s a little more underground, but now pretty big again thanks to popularity from X games, etc. Tony Hawk Video Games and the like. The pay skate parks seem to be disappearing in lieu of free parks though. Houston TX has a $3 million free park downtown, believe it or not, I have never had a chance to even go yet, but I hear it is pretty popular. A lot of skaters hit the free park, EZ-7 which is a local ditch that is world famous, and certain street spots downtown… I am more mini-ramp and flat, but used to skate the streets.
What’s your favorite park ever?
I used to love The Skatepark of Houston when it was around in the ’80s. That was THE place to go. I skated there with many skaters like Chris Gentry, Mike Crum, Bryan Pennington, Ken Fillion, etc. That was my fave park ever, I have TONS of miles of footage from there. I even made a video with Gentry on the 12 foot vert ramp there.
Is Todd Falcon your real name?
Falcon was a stage name I created in 1985 to represent my skate alter ego. I am having Falcon legally added to my name now because a lot of people know me that way. Since my main priority is being a horror film director many know me as Todd Jason Cook, so recently, I decided to combine all four names into my own since I have a following in both skateboarding and in my horror film career. I liked the way Falcon sounded. It was the first thought I had back in 1985. So now I am Todd Jason Falcon Cook, the guy with four names
Are you a good cook?
My Dark Angel girlfriend is here with me and she says ‘Yes you are an amazing cook’ lol. I used to tell people that even though Cook was my God-given last name, I could NOT cook… BUT over the last 7 years, I bought a grill, learned how to season and cook and I made seasoned grilled Lamb last night for my girlfriend and she loved it… so I am happy to say that I can finally cook!
Did you get paid for being in
Tony Hawk Pro Skater 4
?
I gave them the FalconSlide for use in the game. It was a licensing deal for publicity actually, one I am VERY proud of since this was before you could make your own tricks, etc. They used it in THPS 4 and Underground and it was featured on the actual box art which was badass!
Where you in Friday Night Lights?
Wow, not many people know that… you have done your homework. I actually did play an Ambulance driver on the field for the duration of the Astrodome shoot. It was fun, I made friends with a few actors there who later got big parts in my own film
Call to Fly
. It was an interesting 5 day shoot. What many do not know, is that I was recently Michael Biehn’s personal double for a fight scene in the soon to be released horror film
Jacob
. Michael was in many big Hollywood films like Terminator, Aliens, Tombstone, Grindhouse etc. I got to play Michael in order to fight a bunch of people in a bar, then they brought him in and replaced me in the close-ups. I also play a character named Tommy in the film. I am super excited about this film, which was directed in TX by my good friend Larry Carrell.
Who are your favorite skaters?
Tony Hawk and Rodney Mullen.
Do you think you’re more creative than Mullen?
The only way to answer that is to leave that to public perception. The thing with me is, I have a drive to create the most massive quantity of original tricks and variations possible. To date, I have invented over 1000 easily, which most people say is bullshit or ludicrous, but I have ALL the footage to back-up the claim from the prospective years. My great friend Dan MacFarlane (pro for Mentality Skateboards) is one of my biggest supporters who has seen and tracked my progress for more than a decade and he knows of all the tricks and variations, etc. I love Mullen. My thought for my skating was that I wanted to combine Hawk+Mullen+totally original creativity and come up with my own bag of tricks. Dan says I am an alien, from another planet, etc.
Do you hold the record for inventing the most tricks?
I am not sure what the largest quantity is currently… I just remember that Tony Hawk held the world record for most tricks invented, which was like 40 back in the early 90’s. Somewhere in that area I believe.
Have you ever done a handrail?
I rarely ever skated them but yes I have done boardslides, grinds etc. In the way back dayz my focus stuck on vert back then, and then moved to mini-ramp and flat/street predominantly.
You play music right? Have you recorded an album?
I play drums, bass, guitar, keyboard, sing, etc. I had a band called Stage Dive from 1996-2006. We recorded 19 full length albums. On the first 13 albums, I did all the music, wrote the lyrics, etc and had Angela sing the vocals. We were more of a studio band and I LOVE recording. I am even recording a brand new solo project album now which I did all the music AND the vocals this time, so it will be interesting.
Have you ever skated Philly?
No I have never even been to Philly yet. I have mostly stayed in TX as far as skating.
Do you warm up for a blind folded trick with one eye closed?
I actually always go out with no thoughts in my head except “I have to take it to the next level which is something I always think. I do tons of tricks without looking. I have been doing that since 1988 or so, and continue to do that now. I think it is great training. My thought has always been, if I can do all these tricks looking, why not do as many as possible without looking so that is a thing with me. I love the training that it gives me.
What kind of jeans do you wear?
I just took my pants off to check… wearing Mossimo jeans right now, and I usually wear Mossimo caps too.
What are three of your favorite tricks you’ve invented and describe them?
FalconPlant is my favorite trick I ever invented cause it’s totally original from beginning to end. I go up on a ramp fakie, fakie ollie and land on my left foot onto the deck, the board comes up like a seesaw on my right foot, then falls back forward and I jump into the ramp. I have gotten the most variations ever out of this move, including FalconPlant 540 kickflip variations, and recently on flat, I did a FalconPlant 1080 flip. My next fave would be the FalconStomp which is currently catching on and I have seen skaters all over the world doing this one. A FalconStomp is a move where you jump really high over the board, which is placed on the ground/ramp in a darkstall. You land with one foot right in the middle of the board and cause it to flip back over in one motion and land onto it. I have landed tons of variations of this one as well and it’s great to know that I invented a trick that has really caught on. It’s def not easy, so that makes it more rewarding seeing other skaters doing it. My third fave would probably be the FalconSlide (the one footed DarkSlide) especially since it was featured as a playable move in THPS.
What’s the best skate trip you ever went on?
That would be the Falcon Team tour of 2007 when we toured skate parks as a team, met with fans, shot footage for No Logic, etc.
Sponsors? Shouts outs?
Shout outs to all the fans, supporters, haters, all my friends, cast/crew members of Zombiefied, everyone in the skate world and film and music world, and especially to my Dark Angel who loves me beyond anyone.
Sponsors?
Thank you Tail Devil, SoftTrucks, and Birdhouse Skateboards for printing my Todd Falcon boards.

================================================================================

Sup Kyota! Let’s start off with some classic skate interview questions: your name, how old are you, where are you from, and how long have you been skating?
I’m Kyota Umeki, I’m 16, from East Village Manhattan, and I’ve been skating for four years.
Who are your sponsors?
Labor Skate Shop, Frog, Noah Clothing, and Vans gives me stuff. Oh, and Stingwater!
How did you start getting Vans?
James from Labor told the shop rep about me and then he (Johnny Layton) hit me up on Instagram saying he saw me wearing Vans and asked me if I wanted shoes.
How did you get on Frog?
Well actually I didn’t know at first, I knew there were two owners Chris and Jesse, but I would get the two confused. Then I met Chris at Tompkins and asked for stickers. I wanted to buy a board from Labor and asked if he was gonna have any there, and he left one of the Salba boards there for me!
What grade are you in?
10th grade.
Are there other kids at your school who skate? What was it like growing up in the city?
My friend King, we both started skating at the same time and he’s one of the only skaters at my school. I’d see a lot of skaters around growing up, but sometimes they would be dickheads. Other times you’d want to skate with them again.
Who are some of your favorite skaters?
I really like Hugo Boserup, Hjalte Halberg, and Taylor Nawrocki.
If you could have one sponsor, doesn’t have to be a skate brand, what would it be?
Ohh that’s a hard one…Best Buy!
If you got a $5,000 gift card to Best Buy what would you get?
I would get $5,000 speakers.
What kind of music do you listen to?
Well I don’t really listen to music. I started playing drums.
When did you start playing drums? What got you into that?
I got electric drums but I didn’t tell anyone. I was already planning on getting a drum set. When you and Cooper (Winterson) met us at Guitar Center after skating, and I saw him on it it made me want one so much more.
If you had to choose between skating and drumming which would it be?
Skateboarding. Drumming is too hard.
But you just started! You’ve told me your favorite food is acai bowls. How many would you have per week during the summer?
During the summer probably like 4 or 5 a week. Depends how much money I have.
You have a pretty popular video called DS1000/DS2000 where you attached a fisheye to a Nintendo DS. What influenced you to start filming skating with it?
I had one of those iPhone clip-on fisheyes and I would be out filming my friend till 4am and my phone would dieall the time, so I wanted a camera that was just for filming. I looked through a box with old junk and found my DS. Once I realized it had a camera on it, I just attached a fisheye to that and it came out kinda cool.
Are you working on another DS video maybe DS3000 or some other video part?
Uh I’ve been filming with my friend Diego Garcia, who made a video called “Goodily.”
Is there a name for the new video yet?
I’m not sure, he’s had me write the word “Ligma” on his lens once, so maybe that’s it.
What’s Ligma?
I don’t know. What is Ligma?
You don’t know what Ligma is?
Ligma balls…or something like that.
Is there anything you’d like to say to your fans?
Um…Sick-oo.

================================================================================

interview and photos by Eric Ungberg
Are you moving out West or what?
I’m moving to Seattle in like 2 weeks and staying with my friend Finn Pope, so I guess I’m moving out North West.
What kind of spots Seattle got? I bet they don’t have a fuckin Courthouse. How do you like perpetual rain, or is that actually a myth?
Seattle has so many spots and parks but there’s not a courthouse like good ole NC so it’s lack’n. It doesn’t rain too much there and if it does it’s light and not for long. I’m putting the rumors to rest.
Tell me about the sub2
crew, and who among them is the most sus? Plug your video and all that. You
getting last part?
Well sub2 it’s a VX video my friend Hunter Davis is filming with my friends Nick Ruffin, Kyle Cutting, Reagan Crownover, Jake Tenace, Sean Evans, Aaron Casey, Maxton Barber and me in it. Most of the footage is in Raleigh and we’ve been filming for a little over a year it should be super dank n dope! Hunter is for sure the most sus out of all of us hahaha, honestly anyone can get last part so I guess you’ll just have to wait for this Fall to see!
Nice, I’m looking forward to it. Still filming? I imagine you’ve got some enders but do you have an ender ender?
I have some tricks that are harder than others for sure but I have a few more things I might want to bang out or whatever. Who knows let’s see if we can get Hunter out that tux and out to skate.
Favorite NC legend and
most legendary trick?
My favorite NC legend is a 3 way tie between Jed shooter, legendary Robert Clark, and JIM LAW. My favorite trick done locally is probably Matt Byrd kickflip up the 2 to wall ride down the 7 downtown!! So tight.
What’s that clip in? I swear I’ve seen it, but I think it was on Instagram or something.
It’s in THE FUN HAS BEGUN some vertical urge video, full Matt Byrd part, it’s gooooes. Also Cameron Keene fs smith backside flip yolo ledge goes so hard.
Who you getting boxes from
these days, just 917? Anyone else?
Yeah shoutout to Roctakon, Steve, and Calvin at Bianca for hooking it up, also my friend Ollie at mob mentality sends me some clothes sometimes.
Best spot in the Triangle?
Best spot in triangle is probably n2n, definitely the funnest place to skate if you’re in Raleigh. You could skate around that court all damn day.
Wrong answer, Courthouse.
I didn’t put courthouse I blew it! Obvious best spot, I lose the game show!
You’ve got a tattoo of that says “Marsh Creek” on it, I take it you love that place?
I grew up skating marsh creek! It was the first park I ever went to when I was 9 and where I learned a bunch of tricks and meant a bunch of friends. That tattoo… It’s kinda fucked though haha ROB CLARK.
Oh damn, Rob Clark did the tattoo? Does he even do tattoos or did you just get him to do some janky jailhouse shit?
Dude the story is so fucked! My friend Cody’s girlfriend who’s super good at art (and music) was supposed to do it and pretty much Robert clark said he’d beat me up if I let a girl tattoo “Marsh Creek” on me he’s a “OG Marsh Creek homie” he had a gun but we were all a little faded. I like the tattoo now but when I woke up I was like “shit” haha.
Whats the story with you getting jumped there?
Ok so, me and a bunch of friends from out of town were drinking at a friends house and we decided to go to marsh and as soon as we get there this sus ass dude who’s known for stealing a skatepark flatbar is there and pretty much he was salty at me and paid some ghetto rat to punch me in the face. I was super fades and had no idea what was going on it was fucked but my homie John Pankus and hella dudes handled it and kicked that dude’s ass boards to heads phones focused… It was all fucked haha.

================================================================================

“Floppers” is the first clip from
Deby and Sons
, a brand founded by Preston Harper. Edit by Preston Harper with additional filming by Gabe Kehoe, Sam Corkery, Kevin Willrick, Eric Danescu, Keaton Rogers, Dorian Warneck, and Forest Bailey.
What’s up Preston? When and why did you start this brand?
I started the brand around spring of 2019. I’ve just always wanted to start something fun with my friends. Anytime I’ve traveled, I’ve always brought some sort of dad cam along and at the end of each year I’ll typically end up with a bunch of great footage of all my best friends and then I’ll make a little video, maybe a shirt and some stickers to go along with it. I really enjoy doing it and have always had this idea of doing something on a slightly larger scale. I also wanted to somehow do it in honor of my mom Deby who past away from cancer almost 10 year ago. So now I’m trying to raise a little money to give to cancer research in her honor.
Where does some of the inspiration for imagery used for the brand come from?
The whole company is kind of based off of things my mom was into. Bunny rabbits, flowers, exercising, wine, vegetables, exercise balls, swimming, wicker furniture, all of the imagery is based off of things that she was into. It may seem a little random but I assure you there is a meaning behind everything I’ve made so far. Anyway, it’s just a fun way to be creative and have fun with my best friends, all while being for a good cause.
Who all is involved with it?
Right now the team is Alex Kehoe, Max Wheeler, John O’Neal, Pat Franklin, Myles Laurion, and yeah, I put my self on the team haha. I also have so many friends that are amazing artists, so I’ve been trying to get them involved as well. I’d love to continue having a guest artist design for each release we do. So far I’ve been working on designs with Ross Morrell, Katie Beasley, Michael Worful, and Todd Bratrud. Hopefully many more to come!
What kinds of plans do you have for Deby coming up?
We’ve all been filming a bunch so my goal is to try and put out a full length video by the end of the summer! Hopefully keep pushing out more clothes and whatnot. Hopefully try and get a little trip together with everybody. Basically just continue doing what we’ve always done but with all my favorite skaters!
20% of all profits from sales made on
https://www.debyandsons.com/
goes towards cancer research.

================================================================================

Photos by Francisco Chavez
Interview by Larry Davis
Words by Danny Falla
We came down to Lima last year to celebrate the Legaña skateshop opening. How’s everything been going?
The shop is going great, I was just down there and we celebrated one year of the shop being open. It would’ve been sick if you guys were there. I had Marcus Eagel with me, hanging with the rest of the team. He was having a good time, stacking clips as always. It’s just good when we go down there to skate with everybody and we go out to eat or do little events or whatever. We didn’t do a big celebration because we’re trying to put more money into what matters to us, skate trips that the guys need to go to, or the boards that they need, or other little things. We’re also in the process of making some clothes, t-shirts and pants and some stuff like that, so that’s exciting.
Are you doing all that down there or in the States?
We’re doing it down there but we’re definitely going to have some stuff up here as well. At least some pants. The quality of stuff is important, and I don’t know if a lot of people know but in Peru they have good textiles and really good cotton, so we’re excited about that.
Let’s talk about the video, is this the first full Legaña video since the reboot?
Since the reboot, kinda. It was supposed to be a promo video, which it still is. I don’t think these days you can make a very long video where everyone has parts. I mean, you can, but it just depends on who you are. I still watch full length videos and I appreciate them a lot. But this is going to be a shorter video, around 15 minutes. Fabri has a part, Walon has a part, Marcus and I have a shared part, Erik, our West Coast rider has some stu in there, and there’s the Peruvian section too. Which is awesome, because those guys kill it. They got Josue there and he is just on it. I wish everybody I worked with was as excited about filming and had super good vibes and was motivated like him.
Who’s editing the video?
It’s being edited by Diego Vargas, he’s a good friend of mine from Argentina. He’s connected to the people from Buenos Aires, and Delivery Buenos Aires. We were filming for a while and then I asked him because I like the way he films and edits, and he was super down for it. He’s in the process of editing the video now and hopefully it will be out by the time this issue comes out.
Did you go on any trips or anything for this video, or is it just where everyone is?
Yeah it’s just where everyone was at the time. With Fabri and Walon and Marcus we wanted to keep it New York cause they live here and they’ve been skating a lot of spots here and I just like showing where people live, you know? Kinda like a Bobby Worrest skating Pulaski type of shit. They’ve been doing some pretty cool shit, and then the Peru team is mostly in Lima I think.
Okay, let’s see if you can do this one. Try to describe each team rider in three words or less.
Damn, that’s a good question. Marcus: Motivated, sweet stoner. Fabri: Own world hucker. Walon: Smooth, stylish player. Erik: Stylish, Punk rock hucker. Marisol: Sweetest, excited, little. Renato: Entertainer, stylish, go-big-or-go-home. Rodrigo: Quiet, insanely tech. Luis: Determined, silent killer. Alexandra: Chill, sweet, goes big.
What about yourself?
It’s hard for me to describe myself, I don’t really know how people see me, you know? But from what my wife tells me, I think I’m calm and good vibes? Sometimes, I guess? You need that to be a team manager too. Gotta stay calm and put the good vibes out there to make sure no one is stressing too hard. Oh, and very lucky.
Alright, tell the people why they should visit Lima.
Oh man, I could tell you the obvious things like the food and the weather. But Marcus was saying one time, there’s tons of shit that people don’t even think about as spots here. Skating with him in Lima is a great example cause we’ll just pass by something and he’ll be like “Why don’t we skate that?” and people are like, what are you talking about? So having the mentality from New York and looking for spots besides the perfect handrail, or perfect ledge, it’s great for that. The people and the skaters down there are super welcoming to anybody as long as you’re a skater and you have good vibes. And the beach is right there!

================================================================================

Where’d you skate today?
Checked out West Philly. Tried to find that spot, couldn’t find it. Tried to skate Muni for a bit but got kicked out in like 10 minutes, then scoped out some spots in the gayborhood and near Jefferson Hospital.  Then that shitty chain into the bank spot where Geiger did the back 50 back tail. We were kinda all over today. It was a good day though, everyone got some shit.
How long have you been skating?
I wanna say 2001, since I was like six or seven. A while.
How many complete skateboards do you think you’ve lost?
Definitely a couple. I think I left one at a spot around my neighborhood one time when I was really young. I went back for it and it was gone. So that’s one. I definitely lost one in the water too. There was some spot, it was like a fountain, it just went in and was gone.
[Landlord John] Yo Noah wants to use the goat horns for a headdress.
Ha word ask Mitchell.
What’s the sickest road trip you’ve ever been on?
That’s a good one. These guys would know too, pretty much every sick trip I’ve been on has been either with Giorgio, or Jake, or both. We’re always trying to go to spots and things. Pittsburgh is definitely always rad, North Carolina was cool as fuck the first time.
So where are you from?
Originally from New Hampshire, but I moved to outside of Philly when I was five or so, before I started skating.
You see Static 4?
Yea, went to the premiere in Philly, and it was really good. I knew it was gonna be good, but it really was like everything I expected and more. First of all, his style of editing is always really awesome and then just the little things they did in the video, like the clock noise and shit, was a cool way to open it. And all the parts were so sick.
Filming any shit right now?
Yea, well we’ve been working on this video called
Standard Definition
for a while. Matt Steindl is filming it, and Jake and I have been working on that for probably like two years. And then Jake’s working on the Kinetic video, might have a section in there.
What trick are you worst at?
Nollie flip, and switch flip for sure, but definitely nollie flip over switch flip.
Why?
I don’t know man, switch frontside…OK well first of all, I don’t have like an amazing bag of flip tricks. Like I can do flip tricks for sure, but I don’t know…My flat ground game is like, it’s good enough, I guess. I just never really learned to nollie flip cause it was really hard for me to figure out how to do it when I was younger, so I was like fuck it, I’m just not gonna do it. I’ve tried to do it over the years, people have tried to fuckin teach me how to nollie flip, but…
Does weed help you skate?
Sometimes, circumstance depending.
What’s the biggest contest you’ve ever skated?
Probably that Arizona trip we went on for that contest. Went to the Sayerville Volcom wild in the parks, remember that? Most of us qualified to go to the finals, so we were like, fuck it let’s go to Arizona and skate this contest. We went for a couple days, but I ate it so bad. You remember that Jake? It was retarded, I wasn’t warmed up as I normally would be to try something like this, it’s like this ten stair rail, not really proportional at all. It sucks, and I was like fuck it, I’m gonna try to fs bigspin boardslide down it. I got into it and slid a couple times, so I was like, alright I’m gonna do it. And I just fuckin died on the rail. Pretty sure I sacked like the inside of my thigh, something was really swollen I remember. I just laid down outside the park, and then just went to the hotel room, and was icing my shit.
Ever make a ramp or spot or anything?
Definitely when I was younger, me and my dad used to build all types of ramps in my backyard.
Miniramp?
Not even, just like crazy shit we thought of. The one that was there longest was a 6 foot drop-in, then barely any flat, then it went right to a ramp, then a flat, and then a landing ramp, and then like another quarter pipe to go up. You’d basically hit it kinda like a ski jump, and I was just like doing that shit, jumping off the side of it. It was made out of particle board and it was like two feet wide, the whole thing.
You ever try filming, or taking photos or anything?
Yeah I used to film a lot. I still have my VX. I sold my fisheye to Jake. I still film long lens sometimes. I filmed a clip of a kid the other day. I can show it to you. We screen capt’d it on my phone. The homie who I had just met, Johnathan Fletchas, he did it, he’s a filmer from Florida, we skated with in N.Y. a couple days ago. But yea he no comply’d this bump to bar and it’s fuckin sick. I miss filming, I wish I filmed more. I was working on a video with a few people, and then Jake was working on something too, a couple years ago, eventually we realized like we’re just filming the same people why don’t we combine the footage into one video and that was
Fully Flaccid.
Is it ever ok to steal?
Generally no. I don’t steal. I’ve never been about shoplifting, or really stealing anything. I don’t know, if you had to steal for like the well being of yourself or the people you care about, then yea, depending on what it is, it’d be cool. But I’ve never got down with it.
What if it was like the government, or like a township sign, or like a barrier to skate a spot, or like a cone or some shit?
Well normally I wouldn’t do that. I don’t really like to bring extra stuff to the spot to skate it. I like to skate it for what it is, for the most part.

================================================================================

Whats up man? How you doing?
Good mang, good. It’s saturdayyy. How you doing my g?
Good man, ready for this weekend. So what you been up to today?
I was working, just got out. I service coffee machines. ha!
You get free coffee?
Yeah I actually got two bags in my pocket right now! It’s pretty random.
You get snowed in during that storm?
Yeah man, looking at snow right now. Mad snow. We got snowed in so crazy man, I knew it was gonna happen too. It was too nice. It was like springtime weather through December and January. (sounds of skating) But I’m still cruising right now, on my way to the train station, I’ma skate somewhere quiet so we can just chill.
You like the snow at all?
Yeah because I can like go out and walk, and just chill. It’s kinda like a vacation. It makes the pattern change, and everything changes, but change is good.
Hell yeah, so you lived in Queens yr whole life
?
Pretty much. My family first moved to Manhattan and then we lived in LES. Then after that my parents split up and we moved to Brooklyn, and then (sicklaind)? over there and that was like, I think it was the 80’s and the beginning of 90’s and then we moved to Queens.
Sick, whats the best thing about Queens?
Well the best thing about Queens is that it’s kind of in the middle of everything. It’s in between Brooklyn, Long Island, you still got the option to go into the city. It’s kinda quiet, but not as quiet as Long Island. You’re kind of still in the heart, but you’re not haha. But you still got the options over here. You can be in the mix or not. Too much in the mix is bad, but so is too little, haha.
Whats yr favorite place to skate in the city?
Ummm, I don’t know yo. I don’t know right now. I just like to skate around and just find stuff mostly. If I go to the skatepark, I feel like i’m getting in peoples way or something. But I haven’t been getting in the way for a long time so I should get the pass now.
You been on any trips recently?
Nahhhh. Wait, I went to the Dominican Republic but that wasn’t skate related. That was just with the fam. Most of my family is from there.
Thats sick, whats it like out there?
I’m from the country so we live in the heart of the country. Kind of like a farm, but not a farm, just in the mountains. Very chill.
Do a lot of kids skate out there?
They skate like towards the city and stuff like that. In the country there’s not really any skateboarding going on. In the city there’s a lot of skating though. They just opened up a skatepark in Punta Canta at this resort, like a hard rock cafe. One of the biggest hotels in the freaking Caribbean. And it’s pretty ridiculous what they’re gonna do. They’re gonna open a Woodward skate camp out there.
Yoo, thats crazy.
It’s gonna bring a lot of skateboarders, and lot of big names I think. Theres gonna be like big time skaters like Tony Hawk being over there. They’re gonna bring a lot of traffic you know, and then it’s gonna branch out from there and I’m hyped about it. They actually hit me up to go out there to film for like a commercial thing, so they could go show it around. They had all these little go pro helicopters flying around and shit.
So what other skaters are Dominican?
There’s this kid from DR, he’s actually in New York, his name’s Carlos (Calezano) and he’s out here right now going in. There’s this other kid and he’s out in California, and he skates for this company…Man I forget the name. They skate bowls and shit, I don’t remember if he still skates for them but he’s pro. They skate a lot at the beach…
It’s like an OG company.
Word, so how’d you get on Shut?
Man, I got on Shut.. That’s a crazy story yo. I was riding for Official, this Queens based company. It was me, Rodney Torres, Dan Howe, Germain Neives, yeah and it was crazy and I had to leave and tell Rodney I was going to Shut and I didn’t know what to say. It was a weird transition for me, and then it was Alex Corporan who asked me like ‘yo you want to be a part of a company from the start and watch it grow into something from the beginning?’ And I was like ‘Yeah, that sounds cool I’m down. From there that’s how I met Felix, cause Alex took me out to goofy vs. regular back in the day. In like 2005, I call that back in the day haha. But he was like you want to come to this contest cause I used to get flow for etnies, and get all the promo sizes. I got lucky and I was size 9 haha. And Alex was hooking me up through his budget you know, he said he was just looking out for me. So thanks to him I got to go see California and see how skaters skated out there, and see how they had to bail and shit out there. I mean I knew people bailed cause I was kind a fan of Zero at the time and I used to see them bailing and eating shit. And I was like ‘damn this
is what I gotta do to get better at skateboarding.’ So I used to just try crazy shit and jump off everything haha. But yeah, Alex Corporan got me on Shut. Then I met Rodney Smith, and Rodney got me a cell phone and he was like yo, you gotta start being more professional and that’s how it all started going. And then I met Felix at another contest and thats how I got on Famous. Cause I didn’t have a clothing sponsor and I was needing to make some income. Cause I used to just be a mover, I would move filing cabinets and
shit, with the files inside of em! That was a crazy job, I used to work with a bunch of ex-cons and stuff, just getting out of the joint. it was wild, a good experience though.
What’s the worst job you ever had?
I don’t know man, I don’t think any job was the worst you know, cause every job you learn from it, so I can’t say any job is the worst job. I used to think like that, but now I look at it like, there’s a reason behind it. I gotta go through this shitty part of my life, or whatever might seem shitty, but really it’s just gonna make you stronger. Because you’re lacking, and you have to deal with that. That’s how I look at it.
Hell yeah, thats a good way to look at shit. So, what’s the best substitute fr a pillow?
Haha, shit your skateboard! Lay that shit upside down and lay on it.In the airport or whatever, and you’re good. Or a jacket and sneakers.
Whats one of yr favorite video parts?
Shit. Jamie Thomas…No! Mike Maldonado, I used to like watching him. Jeremy Wray, Sean Sheffey, a soldiers story. The Jeremy Wray part where he front three’d that grass gap in a line. I forgot what it was. Ray Barbee, ban this. Frickin Daewon, whatever from him haha.
So obviously you got a world record setting ollie. Who do you think has one of the best ollies?
Shit man, Brophey yo. That man’s got some shit going on upstairs so he’s trying to pop the shit out of his board. Westgate, one of my favorites to watch skate, he’s just retarded.
You ever skate with him?
Yeah I used to be on 5boro with him yo! Before Official I rode for 5boro, they were my first board sponsor.
Is there any other world records you want to break?
I don’t know man, I don’t know about no world records or whatever. If it comes, it comes. If I get inspired I’ll try some shit, but right now I’m just like working and getting inspired again to skate. I was skating the other day on this mini ramp and I was having so much fun. I almost forgot what it was like to just focus on skating, and trying stuff. Instead of thinking whats going on around me, or things that happened in the past that were hindering me from moving forward with my life. Now, finally I’m starting to realize you just
have to learn to forgive yourself and forgive others, and move forward, and just not think about judgement so much. You know? When you’re skating you’re always thinking about who’s watching you, or even when you’re by yourself you just kind of forget that fun. Now I’m more chill, thank god.
So do you like skating contests man?
Haha!!! Ahhh! Yo I used to go in, I was on my Nascar shit for a while. But then I don’t know what happened, I started trying to just slow down my life a little bit. Might get a shorty, a family type thing, so I just started slowing down. I don’t know man, I just started losing it. I used to have fun at those things, just going around like a nomad and shit. It was fun and it was productive. I mean I would do it again but I feel like I gotta lot of homework to do.
So whats yr favorite skatepark in the city? Or do you not really like them?
I don’t know I feel like I’m at a damn contest every time I go to one to be honest, haha. There’s so many kids…
Go out street skating with the homies is more yr style?
Shit I haven’t even been doing that much recently. I’ve just been skating that Black Bear mini ramp.
That’s that bar right?
Yeah, it’s mad fun.
So any places you miss skating in NY that aren’t there any more?
Yeah I miss the banks. I just like going on the wall ride at least, and just passing through it.
Do the wall ride, keep it going. I miss it.
If you had to live somewhere other than NY, where do you think it’d be?
Ummm…Probably…Damn I don’t know…
Whats one of the dopest places you’ve ever traveled to?
You know DR, you know what I’m saying. It’s amazing. Costa Rica, Barcelona are
amazing. I don’t know where to pick. Costa Rica was so nice…
When’d you go to Costa Rica?
I went on a DVS tour. DVS is the best.
So who do you see out there killing NY right now?
Jordan Trahan, yeah I’ll just leave it at him bro hahaha. Oh and this black kid that skates LES all the time! I forgot his name, shit…He’s a lil G.
Do you believe in aliens?
Oh mannnn, I believe…why not? Whatever alien means you know, extra terrestrial, of something not from this territory. Like alien can mean immigrant, they’re not from this land, and a different planet is a different land, it could be like a country. You could look at a planet like it’s a country, what if a planet is a country you know? But they need to get their papers to come out here though…But yeah, why not? Why can’t there be some weird cactus guy that chills on a weird planet just like ‘yooo man, I’m a cactus guy, and I can’t move, but I can talk to you if you want. I’ll be here, in cactus land.’ What if they got all these plants from different planets and earth is just a big ass aquarium you know? What if? Who knows yo! Let’s go to cactus land, or camel planet.
Haha, you ever play sports growing up?
I mean we used to play pick up football or whatever you know. We’d go play with random people and tackle the shit out of each other, who cares. I don’t really do any sports like that. I never been on a team or no shit like that, except soccer when I was a real little kid. I wanted to do baseball but my parents didn’t have no money. I did do boy scout camp for a while through my church, so that wasn’t too much cash. And I learned some survival skills and shit in the woods. How to use an axe and that shit. Something you would never know how to use living in the city. But finally I just told my mom I just wanted to skateboard. I remember skating through the streets in my boy scout uniform! Eating shit tryna ollie a sewer cap, haha. Nobody skated in my neighborhood at that time, and then I ran into some kids, my friends Udonis, Omar, they were skating some raggedy ass ramp and I came through and just ollied off that thing as fast as I could. My boy Joey, who taught me how to ollie, he was always telling me you have to go fast when you
skate, skateboards are meant to go fast. So everything I tried I would always go as fast as I fucking could. it made so much sense to me, just like when I would go do stairs I would just go sooo fast for no reason. People were like whats wrong with this dude!
Yo you ever skate Philly? or Love park?
Yeahhh, I have! just last month. But it was right when they started putting the fences up and there were mad cops around and shit, so I was late
You ever get skate tickets in NY?
Yo one time I got arrested yo, for skating in this park. This cop freaking wanted to make an example out of me. And he got me so pissed…I was like sixteen, and you know when you’re young and you get so mad you start tearing and shit? That happened to me yo, I was so upset. Cuffed up, brought me in, put me in a cell at sixteen for skating in a park. Like what was I doing yo!?
Where was that at?
At Mcdonald park, on Queens blvd. ohh shit, there’s a little homie skating right now.
-Yowhats good g?? You know how to skate yet?- Ohhh snap yo, yo my mans is learning how to skate right now. His board is mad wal mart. Ohhh snap. You gotta go to the city, downtown LES. Just go hang out over there, that’s the skateboard world. And go look for this company, Shut. Hey I’m on the phone right now brother, but it’s ni ce meeting you brother, what’s your name? -Lloyd- Alright Lloyd, peace. You look like a
skater homie, keep doing your thing.
Good shit, you told him whats up.
Yeah man you gotta do that shit He needs to know. Thats some back in the day stuff, you see a skater and say whats good. That guy was cool man.
Yeah people don’t even do that any more. People just skate on by.
Nah, he looks like he’s gonna be one of those passionate dudes you know.
So you got any advice to kids tryina come up in skating?
haha, I think that you just can’t worry about what anybody thinks around you. Just go skate and do what you’re feeling. Like if you feel like doing something just go do it, don’t hold back, cause when you do that you might hurt yourself mentally or physically. Keep going. You wake up every day son! That means you got a chance.
Any shout outs?
Shout out to god, shout out to my mom for not giving up on me, and to everybody out there who has always supported me. Shut, for always looking out for me through weird times and through good times, always being there and having patience. And that’s about it.

================================================================================

Words and Photos by Sean Coates
Interview with John Cruz
I don’t think anyone assumed much after the first couple of bags of concrete were poured. A steep wallride and a camel hump made from two rusty barrels with just enough concrete to connect them. They called it SHORTYS after the nice lady who frequented the Newark, NJ abandoned building.
As pours continued, the project became one of the dopest DIY spots on the East Coast. Despite the city turning a blind eye to this full-blown skate park, there was nothing actually legal about it. After about five and a half years, SHORTYS met the same fate as many of these spots do, torn down by some corpo landowner dude.
It wasn’t long before the guys started building new spots around Newark, some more brazen than others. They built Train Spot on a random foundation in the Ironbound. An entire alleyway was taken over by quarterpipes near Weequahic Park. The wallride up to the NJ Transit bridge off Frelinghuysen and the Philly step on the Route 21 on ramp. They never knew which spots would last more than a few months, yet they kept at it.
The City of Newark eventually became familiar with the crew and their work popping up around town. In an attempt to curb the guerilla-style builds, someone down at city hall offered to give the guys a sanctioned piece of land to build on. Now you can find the boys Barbequing near Branch Brook Park at The Hole Bowl, their permanent home (for now).
Q&A w John Cruz
Do you think Newark is still a go for building new spots?
Every Saturday and Sunday morning I drive around drinking coffee and looking around the city. I’m always looking for a spot where you could put a little piece of concrete and see if it stays. I tried to do that recently over by the Popeyes on Frelinghuysen and it lasted for a little bit and then, I don’t know, it got a little too much heat and they tore that out.
Do you think anything could be the scale of Shortys again?
No, nothing will ever be like that. It was kind of lawless down there. It was three blocks from the warehouse we all lived at and we would just wake up early, go get bags of concrete, and whoever was around would just come and help. It was real, it was just different. I think it was just all situational too, that spot was indoors. You could work all day in the summer with no sun, so you weren’t getting smoked. At the Hole Bowl, we just get so tired because we’re in the sun all day. But yeah, I think that was just kind of a perfect storm, with everyone together. We were younger and our rent was like 300 bucks. So all our money went to concrete, beers, and barbecue.
How did you think about sinking money into these spots?
I don’t know, it was just money. I didn’t think about money at the time, we didn’t have real bills. We paid our cell phones, our rent, and we just were making shit. We’d work for like a month straight and then take two or three weeks off and have these big spurts of building stuff.
How did the Hole Bowl come about?
The city initially offered us these properties, and we didn’t really take them seriously. After Train Spot got torn down, Gnu hit us up and was like “yo, they’re asking if you’re ever gonna do anything with any of these properties.” We were like, oh shit. They actually want us to do something. So we just checked the place out and started digging. That’s why it’s called the Hole Bowl because we just started digging a hole with no plan.
Any words for some random teenager who wants to build their own spots?
Oh, man, don’t do it for anybody else. Do it for yourself and your friends. People are going to hate it, people are going to talk shit. People are going to tell you that your concrete sucks, and that you don’t know what you’re doing.
“I think it’s cool when kids start building without knowing what they’re doing. Just save that lunch money, go buy a bag of concrete, and see what happens.”

================================================================================

Interview by Marcus Waldron
How did you first get involved with skating?
When I was in high school, back in the late eighties, skateboarding was just starting to really bubble, that was the whole Bones Brigade era. There were kids at my lunch table that got a skateboard and I was like, fuck it, this looks fun. I got a little cheap board so I could learn how to ollie and ride comfortably and then found the local skate shop. The closest shop at the time was TNF Skate Shop over in Edison and that was Mike Vallely’s home shop at the time. So I got my first real board over there. It was a Lucero. That same summer the Bones Brigade actually came to Edison. Having the Bones Brigade come to that local skate shop was like the pinnacle of skateboarding in Central Jersey, and it just opened up all kinds of doors after that.
And how would you say you got involved with photography? Or was it kind of always around?
Photography was always just a thing for me. I started shooting family events because there was always a camera in the house and I became the default family photographer somehow. Then when I’d go to events I would take pictures, whether it was Boy Scouts, or when the skate demos started popping up. Then in ‘88 I went to a contest at the Brooklyn Banks and I ended up getting a picture published in
Thrasher Magazine
as a result of it. The picture was showing the first girl who won one of the contests at the Brooklyn Banks with her trophy. That was published in the fall of ‘88, while I was still in high school.
Can you tell me a bit more about that contest at the banks?
One of the kids at my lunchroom table brought a flyer that he must have gotten from either TNF or one of the other skate shops, saying there’s a contest coming up at the Brooklyn Banks. I gave the flyer to my father and he figured out where it was because there was no address for the Brooklyn Banks back then. So he made a whole lot of phone calls and actually drove to New York and figured out where it was. For me, that was the first time I ever saw a mixture of cultures of skateboarders. Cause at my school, it was only maybe two black skateboarders at the time. When I went to New York and saw a bunch of Latino skaters, a bunch of Asian skaters, it was a fucking rainbow, and it was fucking beautiful. I remember Chris Pastras and Rodney Smith being there, and those were the only two black skaters I had seen besides the kids in my high school because they were also from Central Jersey. It was cool, it was fun energy. The people running the contest were called the
Eastern Skateboarding Association
, and they ran amateur contests up and down the East Coast back in the day. That was like the only circuit outside of the NSA, the
National Skateboarding Association
. The NSA ran events for people that were sponsored or that were about to go pro or like elite skaters, if you would. Whereas the ESA was more inclusive for all the different amateurs all the way up to sponsored skaters. It was a real community event. And when I shot that photo of the first woman who won, I linked up with the organizer of the event and he explained to me, “Hey, you know we can use your pictures to send to
Thrasher
and they’ll publish it along with the results from the contest. And that’s what ended up happening and that started my relationship with
Thrasher.
You mentioned the ESA. Did you end up getting involved with them?
Yeah, so I ended up becoming their official unofficial photographer at events. I helped coordinate contests here in Jersey as well as at the Banks. I ended up doing a bunch of fundraiser events locally in Jersey for a guy who was at my church having a heart transplant. I did a fundraiser at a local roller skating rink where I had Mike Vallely and Mike Kepper there, and one event I had Sean Sheffey and the whole Shut team there. It helped me learn how to just make shit happen. I was able to reach out to skateboard companies for support and we raffled off a bunch of product. That helped me when I started my own amateur skateboard league called the
United Skateboarding Association
.
What happened to the USA?
It started very organically. This was after my professional period of shooting hip hop stuff working for the Source. I had this burning desire to start an amateur league because there was nothing for the average kid anymore, and I knew how to organize events. I knew enough people within the skateboarding industry that I could reach out to get basic support. I mapped out yearly contest programs and we went around the whole East Coast doing events. Then it expanded from just doing The Beast of the East to the Beast of the East and the Grom series. So that ran from 1998 to 2005 and it went from just doing contests to also building ramps for people. We started doing action sports marketing where we had a contract with Activision, the video game company for Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater first came out up until Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 4. We also had kids that came through like Chaz Ortiz, Manny Santiago, Dave Bachinsky, just a lot of big names out of the northeast. We really helped build a community of skaters that today are doing business together now that they’re much older. But the platform and community that we gave ‘em year after year really made a difference.
That’s really awesome that you stepped up to fill that void you saw.
It was so important. Cause for me, when I was actively involved in skateboarding contests, it wasn’t so much about being the best, it was just about the community, seeing new tricks, and people from all over different places coming to the contest to hang out and skate. As we kept growing, the business developed more and more but it got to a point by late 2003-2004, where we didn’t have enough sponsorship income or business income to continue to support the business. We weren’t able to pivot properly within the web age. We needed to figure out a better formula to maximize traffic to our website. One year we had a relationship with the advertising campaign, Got Milk and we were able to work with a large number of indoor skate parks where we set up a contract where they would hang Got Milk banners in their park. Anytime they had an event, the local milk processors were able to come there and sample chocolate milk, strawberry milk, banana milk, whatever it was, and every month we gave the skate parks a check just for letting them participate. So it was a whole business networking system that we set up.
So after you had that photo from the Brooklyn Banks published, how did that develop into you working with
Thrasher
more over the years?
When I started getting more involved in music photography in ‘92 I started working with a stock agency. The stock photo agencies would send your work out to different magazines, they’d get calls “Hey, do you have a picture of Will Smith?” And they’d send all their Will Smith pictures, so they were good at getting my material out but I needed more access to shoot at different concerts. They told me, if you can get a magazine behind you, we can help you get access. Thankfully
Thrasher
had a music section, so I reached out and they connected me with their music editor. Basically he said “shoot whatever you wanna shoot, write an article to go against it, and we’ll run it.” So I was getting published every month in the music section. Then by the fall of 1995, I became the photo editor at
The Source
magazine. I stayed there for a year but I just didn’t really care for the business structure. But it allowed me to do a lot more networking while I was there.
How did you get started with
The Source
before you became the photo editor there?
I started submitting back in ‘93, just sending them material every month, hoping that they would run it in what they called the party page, which could be a concert shot, or you’re at a party and you get two celebrities together. Then I met the photo editor at the time, Chi Modu, at a shoot for Large Professor and we started talking. I would just continually stop by his office to the point where I didn’t even have to go there to visit him, but they allowed me to come in the door,  and leave my bags there. When Chi left there was a vacancy there and by going there so much I knew what he did, for the most part. I ended up getting the job, but it just wasn’t fun. I enjoyed being out on the street, shooting concerts, writing articles, setting things up. I had more fun being on the move rather than just being in an office five days a week and dealing with bullshit and politics. At the time,
The Source
was located on Broadway and Houston, and we were right around the corner from where Supreme was. Every day for lunch I would walk to the shop just to hang out with skaters. Cause obviously, as a skater, you wanna hang out with skaters. I was like, you know what? I’m not happy at
The Source
. I’m happy when I’m at the skate shop around my people. And at that certain point is when I had this feeling that I wanted to create something to give back. That’s when I had the idea of creating an amateur skateboard league, wanting to give back to the next generation.
How did working for
Thrasher
compare to working for
The Source
?
Thrasher
was easy because I was able to do whatever I wanted and submit it. I got to the point where I felt my photography was stronger than my writing, and I remember reaching out to Chris Nieratko at the time, who was coming up as a journalist. I knew Chris was a very strong writer so I started working with him where I would take the picture and he would do the article. It was easy working for
Thrasher
because there were never any demands, I just submitted material all the time and because it was so different than all the other material they were getting, it would get published every month.
What is it that makes a photo good to you? What do you look for or try to create?
For me, it’s when you look at the image, there’s something you feel about it, it’s something that’s personal, that’s intimate, there’s storytelling. Back when I was a kid, families used to have what’s called a photo album where it’s a bunch of pictures of your family doing certain things or at certain places. Each picture told its own story. I realized moving forward, the way that I was shooting whether it was a celebrity or a musician or whatever, it told its own story too. Like you felt the moment, it was very genuine. If I didn’t know them, that made it even more interesting. They had to make the magic happen. Then, within those 36 frames of one roll, that magic will come out because you’re giving yourself up to try and find something pure, something original about this person that’s intriguing.
You stayed in Jersey the whole time doing
The Source
and everything?
This whole time. Even now I’m still in the same area of Central Jersey. I’ve never lived in the city. Thankfully I’m close enough to the New Brunswick train station where every half hour there’s a train that goes into New York. I like the action and the networking possibilities of New York, but I don’t enjoy the energy enough to ever want to live there. I like the contrast of coming back to the suburbs, the real world as I call it, and leaving the craze of New York behind.
What do you think about the current state of hip hop?
It’s different. I hate to say it but it doesn’t appeal to me as much cause I’m older, so my ears have adjusted. I feel weird when I say that. I respect everyone who’s doing it because I understand the grind that it takes to be an artist and create a fan base. One person that I have a lot of respect for is Joey Badass because he’s independent. He was one of the first people that bought one of my fine art pieces. It was a 40” by 60” shot of Raekwon and Ghostface. I’m stoked that I’m able to at least connect with the younger generations in many ways. At some point I would be interested in starting to shoot some of the artists that are bubbling up because not knowing who the artists are allows me to see something in them that can create a beautiful photograph.
What do you remember about this contest with Mark Gonzalez and Ron Chatman in Jersey?
That was 1991 at T-shirt Emporium. It was a really good skate shop, and they had a demo for the company 60/40. It was a cool ass demo, Mark just killed it. Watching him skate in person is otherworldly, he’s so fluid and he just does the most amazing shit with ease. I had met Ron Chatman a few years earlier in 1989 when he did a demo in New Brunswick at ABF Skate Shop on Livingston Avenue with Rodney Mullen. Ron and I, because we were the only black skaters, just instantly became friends. I went out to Long Beach and hung out with him and his family for a week. So in ‘91 he came back out with Mark. Ron was a fucking amazing skater. Then that same year Gonz ended up living in New Brunswick for about six months and Ron stayed with him.
Last one, do you have advice for creating a good photo, or advice for aspiring photographers?
Just take your time. One thing I notice when I go to certain places, I watch photographers when they shoot and I hear them lay on their shutter like ten shots in a row. So slow down is what I would say. Look and find the moment, then take the picture. Think of it as if you’re shooting with film. If you’ve never shot with film, you only have 36 frames in a roll of film. So you’re gonna take your time, you’re gonna compose the picture a lot better. You’re gonna wait for the light to fall on your subject’s face a little bit better. You’re gonna wait for the right pose to help compose the moment. Slow down, and really study the subject in front of you that you’re trying to capture. Is there a look in their eye that’s of interest? Something about their skin tones? Don’t rely on auto focus, go to manual, trust yourself. If you’re a photographer, you’ve picked up the camera for a reason, because you feel that you know how to take a picture. Look at your composition, make sure you have enough space above the person’s head or around the person to really frame them. Don’t just hope and lay on the shutter, getting ten shots because you hear the other photographers going click, click, click, click. Really slow down and take your time to create your art because photography is art.

================================================================================

Photos by Owen Basher
Interview by Nnamdi Ihekwoaba
So what’s up? Growing up in Prince George’s county (MD), it seems that there’s an overall pride that comes with that. What was that like?
Yeah, it’s definitely a unique area. I’m very proud of our culture. I guess in just how different things are here compared to any other part of the DMV area. We’re big on style, clothes, shoes, and slang. It’s a very unique area in that sense and it’s very prideful about the things we contribute to the culture. It was a pretty sick area to grow up in. It was very diverse. A lot of people of color, a lot of different communities – like everything – different economic communities living together. You get exposed to everything.
How do you think that shaped your skating?
It definitely shaped my skating in an interesting way being that it’s so diverse. I grew up skating with people who came from different backgrounds. Some people came from pretty traditional homes, some people came from not so traditional homes but we all mingled together and it wasn’t a problem. It was pretty awesome being able to hang out with different people and expose them to different things and they exposed me to different things.
How did you connect with Carpet?
Well it seems like right around the time I started skating, the county started building a bunch of parks. So the skatepark scene definitely helped connect a bunch of different skaters. I actually met Ayman and Osama the very first time I went to my local skate park. It was probably like the second day it was built and they were there skating and killing it. But they didn’t know me, well we knew of each other then but I wasn’t any good at skating yet. I couldn’t really even kickflip or heelflip that well. Fast forward a few years later, maybe like three or four, they built the Laurel park which is [Ayman and Osama’s] local park and I started making the trip out there because Laurel is the best park in PG by far. They were there all the time and they kept seeing me progress, keeping up a relationship – saying “hey, what’s up” at the park whenever I’d see them. Then, when they started Carpet out of our homie Evan’s basement around 2015 or so…
… I remember that basement.
Yeah! In Hyattsville and I live in Hyattsville so I’d always see them around. I’d see them at Mt. Rainier or Melrose. Then I started working at a coffee shop right next to the house they were doing Carpet out of and they started selling skateboards inside the coffee shop I was working at. I was like “Oh! This is so sick!” I just kept seeing them and skating with them more. I guess when they finally started making enough stuff to start hooking people up, they asked me if I’d be down. I was like “Oh yeah! I’d love to ride for you guys!” – or not even “ride” for them at that point. It was more so just like rock some their stuff. I always thought it was the coolest stuff for sure. It still is the coolest stuff.
I know you lived on the West Coast for a few years, was that something you always imagined happening or was it more spontaneous?
After going out to SF for the first time on a trip – we actually went together in 2018 with Nnamdi haha…
That shit was sick!
After that trip, I definitely wanted to live in San Francisco at some point. Realistically, I didn’t think it would happen but I definitely thought to myself “oh yeah, at some point I want to live in the city”. It was the coolest place I’ve ever been to at the time. The fact that I got to live there starting the next year was pretty awesome. Definitely unexpected though.
For sure, it’s similar to an East Coast city. Was that something that was comforting at the time?
Definitely. I’ll say that I liked how San Francisco was kind of congested. You could get from the beach to downtown in thirty minutes. With the train, you could go all the way around the city. I liked how it was very fast paced and all connected. You could even get to the East Bay on the train in like thirty minutes. It reminded me a lot of the metropolitan area that we grew up in. I definitely did not want to move to an area like San Diego or LA where I had to be in a car all the time.
Was there a certain point that made you feel like you wanted to move back to the DC area?
Yeah, I started to miss the seasons. Growing up on the East Coast, seasons are a major part in how you perceive the world and how you perceive time. You expect it to be different outside at different points in the year. I always loved that. I love the fall and the change from spring to summer. I started to miss that a little bit. Also, Covid hit and it completely changed the vibe of San Francisco. Things were on lockdown, things slowed down a lot. The city was getting a little out of hand with public safety and public hygiene in certain areas. It just became something where me and my girlfriend, Christine, were just like “oh man, it’d be nice to get another change of pace” and start something different.
Being back and skating Pulaski a bunch, what’s it been like at the plaza?
Dude, it’s been awesome. It’s been sick to get back to skating the plaza. Before I moved to SF, we skated the plaza but not nearly as much. Back then, park police would still show up every now and again. It wasn’t the main hangout spot that everyone would link up at as much. We would all chill there but it was just a different vibe whereas now it’s super open, everybody links up there. It’s such a nice spot, I definitely missed it when I was living in SF. It’s nice to have a plaza to go to and do anything at, you know? Good ledges, good flatground, always run into good homies. Great spot.
That’s how it is, man. The plaza – not a lot of cities have that shit.
It’s truly a blessing. Moving away and not having it you’re like “damn”. You realize how much a blessing it is to have a central spot that everybody appreciates.
That’s what’s up. Any plans with Carpet in the future?
Yeah, we definitely have been working on a Carpet video, something to put out hopefully soon. Other than that, we’ve just been taking trips, hanging with the guys. They are making cool stuff. We’re really just skating though. It’s been great working with them.
It’s nice to be a part of something growing, rather than just kind of jumping on something that’s already happening.
It’s the coolest thing. Not that I’d ever expected to receive anything from Carpet becoming what it is but it is insane to see how big Carpet has become and those are our friends. Just all upsides, it’s truly awesome to be a part of that and I’m honored to be a part of it with my friends.
Anybody you wanna thank as we wrap this shit up?
Big shout out to you, Nnamdi. Big shout out to Owen. All the statue gang, statue crew my guys. Shout out to Xine for always holding it down. Shout out to my parents. Big shout out to Carpet, big love those are my guys. Shout out to Crushed Skateshop. Shout out to Dial Tone Wheels for holding me down and keeping me rolling. Anybody I might have forgotten, big love to you all too and thank you again for the opportunity.

================================================================================

Interview by Joel Meinholz.
Photos by Daniel El Yamen.
Where’d you just come back from?
Just came back from a trip. I was in Montreal. I road tripped around the East Coast a little bit on a two week trip. It was pretty epic.
How does it feel to get out?
It feels great to finally be able to get out and skate. Being in Miami and always skating, I knew that I wanted to get out of here and skate all these spots that I grew up seeing.
How does it feel to skate with heads that are better than you or really pushing you?
I love that, you know that. The type of skating I like is based off of whatever energy I’m around. So if I’m seeing people doing shit obviously I’m hyped. I want to do my best shit too. Seeing people progress is sick. Being on the road and skating definitely gives you that energy to just try harder. It’s what you’re there to do.
Is that what you always wanted?
Yeah pretty much. I started skating but that wasn’t my main priority like, “I just want to get on trips and do that.” I ended up realizing “oh this is what happens when you fuck with skating.” People fuck with you and you end up traveling and skating.
What’s the best city to skate in the US?
Miami is for sure number one but I have a lot of favorites. I love DC, I love Atlanta. I’m more of an east coast city guy. LA is sick and all of that, but definitely the East Coast just suits me better. Miami is definitely the top city though.
So when heads come to town how does that feel?
I feel like with the park, Lot, and with the shop being open it’s like we see so many people coming through. It’s picked up a lot from what it was, you know what I mean? For a while there we didn’t really have anything, shitty parks and not the same spots. It felt like Miami was asleep for a little bit, and now it’s time to see heads pull back up. Every team you could think of was here last year. It’s sick to see that. We all want that for the city. You want to have a good ass scene.
Andrew plays a big part for the community. How did you end up linking up with those guys?
It was kinda like me, Reza, and my homie Daniel. We kinda were on our own skate thing and then Justin, Kari, and Two Times they had everything. They matched us all together. They went on one trip to Orlando. Meeting Nick, I just met him at Lot randomly. His homie in Toronto’s shop Adrift, I was skating his shop board, the homie Jake. Nick saw my board and was like “yo where’d you get that board?” I told him the homie gave it to me, and Nick just asked me to be on the team and stuff after we filmed.
What’s going on with Alltimers? You ride for them, Dime, who else?
Alltimers, Dime, Nike, Andrew, getting blessed by Venture, and I think that’s it. Getting Alltimers, it’s crazy to actually be able to skate with all those fools. Shoutout Will Marshall. He came to Miami a bunch one winter, like three or four times. We would chill and I’d show him around. He didn’t really skate, we just hung out and partied. He asked, “yo do you want to skate Alltimers boards? If I give you these boards you have to actually skate them and not anything else.” I was like “yeah forsure. Let’s get it.” It’s been almost two years now getting hooked up by Alltimers. This past trip we went on, it was sick to be on a trip with all of them. It’s so sick being in the van. We’re all like minded and it felt super good to be a part of it. It’s something I’m really happy to be a part of.
You know what’s sick? Coming over to you guy’s crib and seeing this next generation of a skate house, seeing what you guy’s got. Do you know that you’re living in a moment?
Yeah for sure. I feel blessed to have the roommates I have, Justin and Kari. We kinda all knew that we needed this spot for everyone to come and have that skate crib. In every city there’s someone who has a skate crib. We were all in our situations, like I needed to move out and they were looking for a new spot. It just worked out and we’ve had no problems. The crib is super clean. Without having this crib in the area we’re in, nothing would’ve worked out the way it did, you know what I mean? It’s kinda crazy.
Being an old Miami head I’m hyped to see it. To see new Miami heads starting to take it into your own hands, I think you guys are starting to grow up to represent 305, Miami, and hold it.
I feel like that’s the goal we had going into it, just trying to represent Miami in a way we can relate to. We just want to show our view and what we think Miami is. I feel like people can see that in our videos and the way we skate.
I think you’re killing it. I’m stoked to be a part of it.
Exactly, that’s been sick too, having you around. That solidified me, having the OG around. We’re still just skating and getting clips. Having fun and not even thinking about anything else regardless of the new situation. We’re still gonna be skating and getting clips.
I think I’m gonna keep this short. You got anything else?
Let’s do it, let’s keep it short. Thank you Skate Jawn, Joel, Daniel, Justin, Mom, Alltimers, Dime, Scuba, Bram, and the Andrew family.

================================================================================

How long have you lived in NYC?
I’ve lived in New York my whole life, but I moved to Brooklyn in 2007 for school at Pratt.
What’s yr favorite thing about Philly?
Rolling 30 deep to every spot. Actually that kinda sucks most of the time. Rolling 30 deep to FDR.
What’s yr least favorite thing about NYC?
Rent
Do you still have that book you made of spots from Quartersnacks?
Hah yeah I think so, at my parents house. They called me out on that and I didn’t know whether to be stoked or embarrassed.
Where you trying to road trip to?
We wanna go to the Mid West, Chicago, Detroit, Minneapolis, Cincinnati? No real plan yet, just trying to go the last week in August.
You like the South?
We went on a trip down there almost exactly a year ago, destination New Orleans. I like the skating, food, and country music. I can do without the summer heat though.
You ever been to Georgia?
I went on a trip with a bunch of dudes in early 2009 and me and four others got thrown in jail for trying to skate that water park.
What ended up happening?
I was the last person put in the patty wagon, so the cop stuffed everyone’s IDs in my pocket. When they took all of my stuff at central booking they had all the IDs still under my possession. I end up staying there overnight. Around 6 am I get called and I’m thinking, thank god I’m finally out. Unfortunately it was just to give permission to let one of the guys that didn’t get arrested to get the IDs from my possessions. They needed ID at the bank to get enough money out to bail us out. I didn’t realize that they had to give him all my stuff. When I finally got bailed out after like 24 hours I had none of my stuff so I had to walk out of jail in a paper jumpsuit and socks.
What’s yr favorite animal?
Dogs are the best.
You draw a lot of giraffes and other animals too though?
Yeah, most of my artwork is based around animals. I like all the different textures and patterns on them, and when I started doing wood and lino cuts the textures and patterns translated really well.
How did you end up doing a series of skating dog boards for Hopps?
I made a book with similar skateboarding dog drawings and put a photo copy version of it up in some KCDC art show a while back. I’ve skated with Jahmal a few times, here and there, over the years. One day he approached me and complimented me on the work at KCDC, and I asked about doing a board. We didn’t talk for a while after that and I figured he was over it, but one day he called me up and asked to do a three board series.
Who is Dylan Goldberger?
I used to be really bummed on my last name so I just said my middle name instead.
Can you miller flip?
Poor man’s invert. I’m pretty sure they ruined any chances of me doing a fs invert, just keep over rotating.
Can you wizard flip?
Is that 360 heelflip? My board is limited to kickflips only.
Nah, it’s drinking enough beers till yr wizard staff is above yr head and doing a kickflip.
I got the wizard fs blunt.
Why do you always skate to country music?
Skate Jawn Vid wasn’t too country. Everything else is wack.
Eminem or Blink 182?
Blink. My Eminem cd was edited, Blink said fuck.
How often do you black out?
Less than last summer.
Why don’t you wear shoes when you skate?
Cause I never have socks, and shoes and no socks sucks.
Thanks/shout outs?
Every one at 614 and all the other homies. Sundays Zine, Prize Fighter, Hard Times, Beerings, and the homies at Vans, Amy at KCDC. Dennis McNett is the best boss ever. Thanks 2nd Nature for supporting me forever. Thanks Max Hull for going out filming with me since I could stand on my board. SKATE JAWN KILLS IT. Fuck, I know I’m forgetting something.

================================================================================

Interview and Photos by Dave Mount
Where do you live and where do
you skate?
I grew up in Burton, Michigan. It’s a small town outside of Flint. I moved to Long Beach, California in 2006 and now I live in Burbank. I usually just skate around here in the Valley, but I try to go out on missions to other spots whenever I can. I really dig the areas along the Foothills; La Crescenta, Altadena, Upland. I drove to Azusa four times last month to get a trick at this barrier. Over the summer some friends and I took a skate trip to Mammoth and skated all the parks. When I die I will have my ashes spread up there or maybe along the Foothills and in the Valley too.
You are always skating different stuff. How do you usually find spots?
I drive around a lot looking for new stuff and I spend way too much time on Google Earth. I actually found Guy Mariano on there once. He was standing with his board and a leaf blower at a spot. I also found Tanner Burzinski on there, mid-session, at this bump over rail. I have a few spot-obsessed friends that run skate-spot accounts on Instagram and we all share pins. I have been getting more into fixing and making spots so I can skate more without having to stray too far from home.
Having stuff to skate close by is ideal. Who do you usually skate with?
Mostly I just skate alone. It’s tough to coordinate with other people because of my schedule. I have two young kids and a full-time job so I usually only get a couple of hours here and there to skate.
What’s it like always skating solo? Do you run into people at spots? Do you get hyped on that or bummed other people are there?
I don’t mind skating alone. I get to pick the spot and being solo draws less attention, so sessions don’t get cut short. I always run into people while I am out and that usually fires me up. I was at this curb spot I always skate, when I heard skateboards behind me. I looked back and there were Mariano and Janoski rolling up with huge smiles. Nicest dudes ever. Guy showed me some of his clips on his phone and I told him about finding him on Google-Earth. It was totally surreal. I have bumped into them at the same spot a few times now. I’ve run into Kevin Long a couple times too and same vibes, super friendly, encouraging, just fun to skate with. We’ve shared spots with each other and I saw him skating a spot I gave him in an ad, so sick.
What motivates you to skate on
your own?
I love skateboarding and I just want to keep going as long as I can. I find a really cool spot or think of a trick and just get obsessed with it until I make it happen. I still watch every video that comes out and that usually gets me pretty sparked. Lately, I have been really into Jimmy Wilkins skating. He is one of my favorites to watch. The lip tricks he does are insane and I try to take them to curbs and then to barriers. I started doing all these weird Losi grinds because of that guy.
Speaking of Jimmy, you get DLX flow, right?
Not flow, but I do product testing for them, and that keeps DLX stuff under me.
How’d you get involved with the
product testing?
A longtime homie runs hard goods over there but lives in L.A. He needed someone local to try new things and really skate them into the ground. I just throw on whatever he gives me and I skate it as hard as I can. I guess it also helps that I skate alone and am kind of secretive, so nothing gets leaked. We spend a lot of late nights in empty parking lots together reviewing wear and tear, swapping parts, talking about the goals for the products, how they should perform, comparing what other testers are saying or feeling. My setup is always kind of changing.
What does it take to successfully test product and give useful feedback?
It takes a lot of memory, always having to compare a new sample to the previous version, or a version that I rode three decks ago. I am constantly analyzing stuff in my head and trying to break down tricks and what will work best for the spot. Sometimes he just asks me to see what it takes to break, bend, or flat spot a sample, and I just go as hard as I can. Then it’s just being able to clearly communicate and explain what works and what doesn’t, what I’m feeling that might be different or consistent through the samples. I am always solo filming stuff too so I always have clips and photos to share with them.
Has your input played a role in the
development of any products?
So I’m told, yeah. He keeps putting new stuff under me and we keep talking shop so it must be helpful. I can’t really talk specifics, but since they’re out now, the F4 93, it was a lot of testing to confirm changes to the samples based on feedback that pros were giving. Like, “Hey we got this note, made some tweaks. Test them to make sure they’re ready to send to so-and-so.”
It doesn’t seem like many brands actually invest much into product R+D, decks have mostly been the same for 25 years, same with trucks and wheels. Do you think there’s much room for product innovation in skateboarding?
Skateboarding has become more creative, even on the manufacturing side. The guys at DLX are coming up with such cool stuff. The advancements with wheels in the last couple years have been a game changer. Some new stuff they’re doing with decks that will be coming out soon is seriously next level. I can’t speak to other brands, but DLX takes it seriously.
Do you get paid for testing product?
I don’t get paid. I get boxes of stuff to test and that keeps me hyped. Growing up I only had shop sponsors and was on shoe flow through a rep. Getting a box now is so sick. They keep me skateboarding.
How do you support yourself outside of skateboarding?
I am a video editor and do development for a reality television production company. Basically my whole life centers around research and development.
Any last words?
I will just add that my wife buys me a subscription to Skate Jawn every year for Valentine’s Day, so having the opportunity to do this interview means a lot.

================================================================================

Interview by Nnamdi Ihekwoaba
Photos by Owen Basher
Alright Rashad, I know we just got back from a Carpet trip to Mexico that we’re recovering from but what else are you up to these days?
I would say the same. I’m recovering from that trip and getting ready for more tattoo work in the future. I’m trying to skate way more too, especially now since I’m starting to feel more comfortable on my board again. I’m trying to skate as much as possible before I go back to work.
So you grew up in Baltimore and then moved towards the D.C. area. Was there much of a change in lifestyle between the two areas?
At first, it was really hard just because in Baltimore, you can go from place to place and everything is a lot cheaper. Everything is a little closer in proximity and there’s not much really going on so you kind of make your own fun. I feel like when I came to Montgomery County, there were a lot more activities, and things for me to actually get into other than playing basketball or football. And that’s when I really started skating. When I first wanted to skate as a kid, I was living with my grandmother in Baltimore and she would not let me skate in the street but when I came to Montgomery County it was a lot more laid back. I was able to be more free because the area was safer.
For sure, MoCo in general is just a decent area.
I can’t really knock it. Personally, I’ve never experienced a place in MoCo where I felt unsafe.
After moving to the D.C. area as a kid, did you skate Pulaski a lot? Did the plaza shape the way you skate?
Yeah, I feel like when I first started skating I wanted to skate how most kids want to skate. Jump down stuff, you want to skate the biggest gap, the biggest rail, the biggest this and that. You don’t really have an idea of what you want to do so you just do what you think people want to see you do. I feel like once I started skating Pulaski, there was just simple shit that became way more important. Things like going faster, doing things properly, you didn’t have to flip into everything but you had to grind the ledge a certain way. I just think skating the plaza has made me a much better skater but not in the way that I first initially thought it would.
How did you meet Ayman and Osama? How did Carpet come into the picture?
I don’t remember exactly how the whole situation went down when I met them. I just remember every time I came across them, they were always making fun of me. There was just something about me, I don’t know what it was, I think it was just because I was younger and they liked me so they just kept picking on me. I was used to it because I have an older brother and I have cousins that I grew up with who did the same thing. But I feel like I met Ayman and Osama through my friend Elijah and I think it was probably at Laurel that I met them.
I feel like I met them around Laurel too.
And then I would bump into them at skate premieres and stuff like that and I would run into them at the skateshop which was called Bureau at the time. Yeah, I would just talk to them and they would just talk to me and we clicked and eventually, they started Carpet and started giving me boards. That turned into what it is today, me getting product and boards from them which is pretty cool. But at first they swore they didn’t have a team! So I was never telling people I was on Carpet, they would just give me boards. They would be like “we don’t have a team” and I’d be like “Ok. As long as I’m getting boards, I don’t care.”
I know you have been tattooing for a couple years now. How and when did you get into tattoos?
I would say ever since I was nine I wanted to do tattoos. My dad would go into the back of this hair salon and there was this dude named Freddy and he would do tattoos back there. My dad would take me back there and we’d hang out. We’d talk to Freddy and look through his flash book and everything and I just remember knowing that even if I don’t do it professionally, I want to learn how to tattoo.
I love comic books and stuff like that. I used to want to be a cartoonist.
Oh yeah, same! That was what I initially wanted to do because I remember I told my grandmother that I wasn’t gonna go to college, I was gonna draw cartoons and design video games.
Yeah, man. Art is special and it’s something that we all have within ourselves in a way.
It’s pretty cool. I feel like skateboarding is one of those things where a lot of skaters have other art outlets but I don’t know if that’s the case for football or basketball players. Not to say that’s true across the board, but I feel like skating is where you meet the most artists.
I know you are recovering from an injury right now. What happened and how has that changed your perspective on skating?
So while we were on a trip in Boston I hit my head and found out that I had two brain tumors. They had probably been growing for a long time because of their size and where they were. The first thing you think is “oh shit, I have brain cancer. I’m gonna die.” but then, later on, you realize that not every tumor is cancerous and luckily in my case the tumors weren’t so it kind of felt like I got a second chance at life. So then I was thinking that now this is something that I have to deal with. I can’t hit my head, I can’t be as reckless. Now I just see skateboarding more as something that doesn’t have to be my career because I may not necessarily be able to do things that people will like to see as much as I did before. It’s just made me care way more about my health and the people around me. It’s also made me care about skateboarding in general because now the first thing that’s on my mind when I skate is that I want to be having fun and if I’m not having fun I should probably stop. So now, it feels like I’m twelve years old again and I’m re-learning everything. I do stuff now that’s a little bit simpler because there are a lot of tricks that I lost because brain surgery fucks with your motor skills. I feel like a lot of people underestimate how serious your brain is and how much it really controls everything. If I’m scared, it’s because of my brain. If I can’t land something, It’s because of my brain. Physically? I’m fine. But when it comes to my brain healing and recovering, it’s gonna take a while. I’m just way more patient with myself now, and I understand that it’s not the end of the world if you can’t land something.
For sure, man.
I’ve never been the type of person that’s hated my life or thought that I had the worst life ever. I’ve always known that in a lot of ways, I’m blessed. But this experience has made me realize that even with having to get brain tumors removed and having this be a part of my life, I’m a lucky dude. I have so much to be grateful for.
That’s a fact, bro. It’s definitely changed all of our lives as your friend and all of our perspectives on skating, on friendship, and being there for each other in different ways. It’s had a huge impact on all of us and our families.
Yeah, man. It has somehow made my life much better. Like I know I’m gonna get all those tricks back. I just gotta keep trying every day and just stay consistent. Honestly, I haven’t had this much fun skating in a long time.
Is there anything that you are looking forward to in the future with skating or tattooing?
I hope in the future I can re-learn the tricks that I had down before I had my brain surgery. That’s really my ultimate goal is to get those tricks back. I would love to film a really good part after that. Like I would love to feel more confident on my board and put out a real part again. I would hopefully like a year where I’m lucky enough to not have something so severe happen to me. That way I can really give another part my absolute best shot. As far as tattooing, I just want to find a place to call home and be able to tattoo out of there consistently and make it my career, you know? I love to skate but I don’t see that as being something that’s going to pay my bills. It’s more of a hobby at this point. I’m 24 and about to be 25, I’m not gonna be out here thinking that skateboarding is gonna pay my bills. But for tattooing, I would just love to finally get an apprenticeship, get fully licensed, and have a real place to tattoo out of. I’d quit my job now to make that my real deal career.
Is there anyone you’d like to shout out? It’s been a really interesting journey, is there anybody you’d like to thank?
First, I want to thank my mom. I want to thank my girlfriend, Cadia. I want to thank Cadia’s family for looking out for me too. I want to thank my dad for staying in the hospital with me for three days while I recovered from my brain surgery. I want to thank my homies, all of them. The whole Statue crew all the way down to anybody that stands on our side. If you’re my homie and you genuinely care for me, I want to thank you. Of course, Carpet – Ayman and Osama. Yeah, I just want to thank anybody who’s looked out for me and everybody who’s only had positive things to say about me. Most importantly, I want to thank the whole DMV community for showing me mad love when I was going through that and supporting me all the way through. If anyone had anything negative to say about me then obviously not you. I only wanna thank my real homies, my real family. Everybody all the way from Bmore, to DC, to New York, Ohio, Mexico, the Philly heads, Upstate New York for showing mad love, Cali, just everybody.

================================================================================

Photos by Benjamin Meunier
Where are you from? Where are these photos from?
Born and raised in north of France, a small beach town called Wimereux. I started skateboarding there with all the homies from all generations. We used to have a great local scene over there since the 80’s mixing small contests, shops, surfing, windsurfing, Belgians, English people, and music scene! Now it’s gone a bit down the coast. en I moved to Lille for my studies where I met the Zeropolis guys (the main skate shop in north of France) and from one skate project to another I met the Low Pro crew. Now I am based in Biarritz (South West of France) and actively move to meet the team and jump on projects. All the photos come from Benjamin Meunier, our main photographer.
Why were you in Madrid? Tell me about the trip.
We were in Madrid to start our new video project for Low Profile brand. What a trip… One week of rain and wind! But fuck it, we made it!
Tell me about Low Profile.
Low Profile is a brand created by Greg Tos. We all met thanks to the Lille scene and our deep love for
skateboarding and well made things! We are now ending our second video and more than happy about the things we all made together since the beginning, a bit more than a year ago! I don’t want to speak in Greg’s name but I think we all want to keep this project as a big and cool motivation to stay skateboarding as long as we can!
Do you skate for any other companies?
Not really, Luigi Gaydu helps me with some Converse shoes, and Ace Trucks but that’s it. And of
course, I’m still skating for Zeropolis Skateshop!
Had you been to Madrid/Spain before?
Yes, of course! Spain is not that far away when you live in France. Barcelona and South of Spain were my
first trips but I’m getting tired of those places. Madrid is way more a treasure to discover!
Any good stories from the trip?
Claro que si! Like a lot of starting brands, we are very low on budget so we spent eight nights in the cheapest hostel of the city. 10€/night, I’ll let you imagine how it is in a 20 person shared room. Farts, snores, smells, weirdos… But the best was our epileptic neighbor who made a crisis at three or four in the
morning falling into the metallic lockers… Also good ranking for the grandmother who fell in the hole of the bank to ledge spot we found! Last but not least, thanks to the 2€ pizza slices for our bellies!
Tell me about the video.
Next video will be a VX edit. As always, everyone will try to do his best to make it happen and to be proud of it. At this point, nothing is really determined but all I know is we can 100% trust our dear Greg!
How do you like Spain compared to France?
I think we are all pretty in love with France, but it’s a fact, Spain is cheaper and full of spots. Maybe unluckily, Spanish cops are not that friendly but one thing is sure, you should try it!
Is there anywhere you want to go on a skate trip that you haven’t been to yet?
New York City baby!
Describe your skateboarding in as few words as possible.
Rusted.
What kind of skateboarding gets you most hyped?
Everything that has this tiny well balanced extra thing get me hyped!
Have you been on any other good Low Profile trips recently?
Nothing since Madrid but as Greg and Ben are now Paris based, Paris missions are the next plan. We are questioning about an Eastern Europe summer trip by train and we also want to visit some friends in Annecy (French Alps).
Best skate trip you’ve been on?
Pretty sure it’s going to be the one in New York with you guys <3.
What’s the worst spot you went to in Madrid?
The worst does not exist, it’s all about controlled chaos!

================================================================================

Interview by Jawn Cena.
Yo, what’s good? You in the car?
No, I just rode my bike over the bridge to my job to get my board before going to the airport.
Where are you going?
I’m about to go to L.A. for a week or so. Just figured I’d go now before it’s too late. I’m trying to see all of my homies who just moved out there.
How was living in Seattle?
It was really sick. I lived in Seattle for about three years, kinda starting in 2015. It was the polar opposite of living in a suburban town in North Carolina and then just going to a city with hella skaters, hella skate friendly and way more diversity. It was really sick. So many people I met out there I still talk to all the time. Some live out here now.
What made you come to New York?
I originally grew up on the East Coast and a bunch of my friends and family I grew up with were all on the East Coast and moved to New York. It was kinda isolating, being the only one on the West Coast, and it was so expensive trying to visit all the time. It kinda got to the point where I wanted to move to L.A. or New York to try to pursue skating. I figured that the skating I liked to watch was in New York, and all of my friends and family were over here anyways, so it just made sense to come out here.
What kind of skating do you like to watch?
When I first moved here I was super into watching the Quartersnacks edits and the Johnny Wilson edits. It was the first montages where it seemed like everyone was skating one spot, kinda way more relatable, seeing or hearing about those dudes growing up on the east coast, like Nik Stain or people like that. I feel like now I only watch videos from the ‘90s. Old 411s,  stuff like that, or old FTC videos. The apartment that I live in right now has so many old skate video VHS’s that have been collected by all the people who have lived there. It’s crazy, I feel like I haven’t even watched all of them.
You live in a skate house?
I guess so. Everyone who lives there skates. It’s me, Neil Herrick, Neils Bennett, and Sam McKenna. Sam shoots photos and both Neils are pro!
What’s up with Titus?
Titus (one of one?) is a project I started towards the end of lockdown. I started printing a bunch of bootleg band tees. There was a tee I wanted that was $100, so I thought that it’d be so much cheaper if I just printed one out super shitty through some tee shirt service online. It turned into me finding a way to print on clothes at home and making my own shirts. I got super inspired to make collages and more art pieces after Covid and it translated to trying to make collage art pieces on the clothes. I think it was just me trying to make clothes for myself and people would just ask me for it. I started making more than one copy whenever I’d make something for myself and it’s kinda just like that right now.
Have you ever made a zine before?
I made a zine one time in Seattle of iPhone photos, and then a little playlist at the end printed out on the back. I made maybe  20 copies. I’ve actually been working on a risograph print out zine this past week. My friend Patrick has a studio in Bed-Stuy and I’ve been printing a bunch of scans of my drawings on risographs. It’s super easy to print out a bunch of copies at once so I’ve been collecting photos until there’s enough to make a zine out of it.
I hear you’re working on an all drop in part?
Haha yeah actually. I feel like I’ve been working on it for two years. I don’t know if it’ll ever come out. I have so many drop in clips on ice. I don’t know if it’ll be a drop in part, but maybe a part without ollieing, for sure. I feel like that hasn’t really been done.
How many times has your moped gotten stolen?
Fuck dude,  twice? It got stolen once from outside my apartment. I had it back for maybe a week and then it got stolen again from in front of my job, even with the back tire locked up too. I was working one day and had it locked up in front of the store, just the tire locked. I came out after work and that shit was gone. I was so shocked after just getting it back and had no idea what to do just feeling so defeated.
But you got it back, what happened?
I missed a call from my friend Levi from Seattle. When I hit him back he sent me this photo of this dude with dreadlocks and a banjo riding my moped. He said that when he walked up to the dude he wasn’t intimidating at all, and that he bought the moped on Craigslist. Maybe 10 days after that I went to this coffee shop to meet my homie Deandre to get a jacket from him, and he was like not trying to link up with me at all, he was like, “dude just meet me after work.” For some reason I just wanted to get the jacket from him right then so while I was waiting for him at the coffee shop I just saw this dude playing the banjo with dreadlocks and I figured this would be the only dude in Bushwick to fit this description, but when I walked up to him he was completely nice and was like, “yeah, I just moved here from SF and I bought it on Craigslist. I’ll go home, just watch my banjo real quick, I’ll be right back.” The dude was like, “I’ve had my moped stolen before, I just bought this to have a bike to work on,” or some shit, and was just the least aggressive dude ever.
It’s still January, starting the year off. Got any goals for the year?
That’s a good one. For the year I feel like I definitely want to try to film more and put out another part. I’m working on getting my passport right now. I want to go to London and see some homies I know out there. Work on filming and skating more. Focus on being out all the time and not just chill, you know?

================================================================================

Interview by Tony Farmer
Dan was born and raised in Oceanside, NY. He’s got a brother named Charlie that does invert fakies and can grind anything anywhere anytime. I met Dan at the L pool on Long Island, along with his band of trogs known as “The Dirt Bags” how original. These are the type of cats that militantly protect their own finds, but pull no punches when it comes to raiding other people’s pools. All’s fair in love and war, yeah? After immediately dislocating my shoulder, Dan asked if I was alright. My cunty response was, “Is that a rhetorical question?” Once they looked up the term on Wikipedia, Dan and co. decided that I was “cut” for throwing around such a flowery vocabulary. After a year or so of tracking down and skating “their” pools unbeknownst to them, we made nice and spent the entire pandemic in bed with each other. Suffice to say we have had a lot of fun. A shared love of the search and destroy ethos, Darrel Delgado, and ice-cold beverages continues to fuel our camaraderie.
Ok, here’s a couple quickies.
Hewitt or Hitz?
Hewitt! Come on, it’s Peter!
Gardner or Cope?
Cope! By miles. Respectfully, I love you, John, you’re so rad!
Ok, they get tougher (not really). Ozzie or Salba?
Oh, that’s fucked up. There’s no right answer, I’m gonna plead the 5th.
Delgado or me?
I always tried to emulate the way you ride a pool. But Darrel rewired my brain; he made me realize there’s no pool that’s not grindable, you just got to want to do it, right? I’m gonna say this, for style and flair and general ethos it’s you, but Darrel’s twisted mind and approach were a big influence on me.
What’s your best pickup line?
I’d just look you in the eyes and say, “You’ll do.” And then we’ll see where it goes from there.
And that works?
It has about an 80% success rate.
I don’t believe that for a second. Here’s some easy dumb ones. Favorite coping?
Oh, come on, Anthony. There’s nothing better than smashing some Anthony.
Wrong. Exposed aggregate. Firecracker. Sorry.
Nope, sick rocket pocket Anthony is unbeatable.
Ok, fair. You’re right and wrong.
Next, your favorite shape?
I used to think kidneys were marvelous, but then something you said ruined that, “It’s just another boring kidney.” So now I just want a fucked up pool, something that makes you think.
What’s your all time favorite pool?
Oh, L pool! That’s where I learned how to skate, that’s where skateboarding changed for me. That pool changed my life forever. So that’s a no brainer.
Do you have a Napoleon complex?
I’m a little guy, but the “short” answer is no. I’m a pretty confident guy, so no.
You recently whined to me that you’ll never again reach the highs
of this past summer. How can you say that, given your love for so many dinosaurs such as myself?
This past summer I went out to Seattle with Pat, Josh & Sam (AKA Back Yard Productions). We had a ripping two weeks there, then Jenn came down from Canada and picked me up in this beater 1985 Dodge Ramcharger. We rolled through Portland, down the Oregon coast into Reno and then things got weird when we broke down in Lake Tahoe. We proceeded to live in the Tahoe Inn pool for two weeks. Finally managed to get back on the road down the West Coast and ended up in Vegas. We skated loads of rad pools and partied pretty tough. It was epic and I don’t think I’ll ever top it cause I don’t see another time in my life where I’ll have four months to travel and skate.
I’m gonna
interject here as a 55 year old man and say you got a long road ahead of ya, kid. Are there any grievances you’d like to publicly air? Any beefs, fuck offs, that sort of thing?
I’m just gonna say fuck off to… everyone. I hate you all.
How about the I Love You’s, shout outs, and all that jazz?
First and foremost, Charlie Weiss, best skater on earth. He’s my brother, such an inspiration and he doesn’t give a fuck! Number two, my second favorite skater of all time, Jesse Mac. Best friend 20 years! Backyard Productions: Sam, Pat, Josh, love you boys. My mom, Margred, she knew that I was a freak and allowed me to do that. Tyler Hopkins, Gone Cemental, love you dude. Darrel Delgado, and Salba, of course. Shout out to Long Island! 151 Skateboards and Matt Dyck. Indy and Rhino. Max Hersh, you lined this all up, love you baby! Oh, and BOBBY PULEO!!!

================================================================================

Interview by Jawn Dillenger.
Photos by John Shanahan.
What’s your last name?
Abaza, it’s Egyptian. My dad is from Egypt, and my mom is from Egypt too.
Have you been to Egypt?
I’ve been there one time. When I was eighteen.
Did you see the Pyramids?
I did a little tre flip in front of them. I guess you’re not supposed to skate over there. Obviously, cause it’s high security, but because my grandma’s older they let us drive in. I took my board out real quick, I was like, I gotta do something. I think some other dude did one a week before I was there. He climbed the pyramids and went to the top and did some shit and they beat his ass. The dudes were telling me like, “Did you hear that on the news, we beat his ass last week.” But I didn’t climb the pyramids. I was just doing it on asphalt.
And you grew up in Long Island?
Yeah, in a town called Kings Park. There was a local park in a town over from me, Northport skate park, and that’s where I learned to skate transition and shit. there were these two dudes basically, Joe Mannox and Chris Riley, older dudes who all they’d do is skate transition. They put me on to Duane Peters and all the old punk rock shit and doing sweepers, and Texas plants, front side grinds, all the shit that I still like. I owe that to them.
So there were good parks around you?
That was the only one. And growing up, it was a helmet park, so no one ever wanted to skate there. But I just kind of had it to myself cause it was the closest one. When I was sixteen, that was my first job, helmet enforcer. But as soon as I started working there everybody stopped wearing helmets. It was the coolest job. You got paid to skate.
And you work at Substance now?
Kind of, but because it’s nicer out I haven’t been working there too much. I was working there all winter and that shit is just as fun. You just skate around with the kids. It’s hard for me to teach skating cause I didn’t learn it like that. I learned it by figuring it out, just trial and error. So I try to just get ’em hyped up and just keep skating with ’em and if they have questions I’ll help them or whatever. But I don’t think skating is supposed to be taught. Just let ’em do their thing. that’s what creates more diversity in skating. If you cookie cutter it up and you make it like, you gotta learn this trick, you gotta do this, and you gotta do that, it flattens the creative aspect of it.
We just got back from this trip to Pittsburgh. How was that?
Hectic, y’all are crazy dude.  wish it wasn’t raining as much, but we still got it done. We still were productive. We skated in the rain, we skated in the sun. I had a good time man. And I didn’t even know that it was like a six hour drive. I thought it was three hours and then like fifteen minutes before we were supposed to leave, I looked at the GPS and I was not prepared. I started packing and shit.
What about Pittsburgh as a city? What did
you think of it?
Oh, I like it a lot. It’s crusty. I like that crusty shit, and interesting people. I definitely wouldn’t be the type of character to be at Gooski’s, you know? I respect it for what it is, and it’s sick that you can smoke in there. It’s like the spot in Pittsburgh.
Do you remember anything from the first grade?
I remember one of the first things we learned about was penguins, and I was stoked. We had a unit on penguins, a unit on bears, and a unit on something else. I wasn’t skating back then, I could tell you that.
When did you start skating?
When I was like ten or eleven. My older brother skated a little bit, so I kind of had seen a board when I was like four, and I jumped on a little ass board. I saw a photo of that and I was like, whoa, I don’t even remember that. It’s like almost half my life right now.
Favorite food with peanut butter?
Can I put peanut butter on the peanut butter? Or peanut butter on top of a Reese peanut butter cup. How about that?
Are there any rules in skateboarding?
I don’t think so. There are rules of physics, but we don’t abide by those at all.
Most important thing to bring on a session?
Your skateboard, some good energy, and water too. And also, you know…
Do you watch a lot of skate videos? What’s some stuff you’ve seen recently that got you hyped?
Damn. I gotta say Kanfoush. Seeing that dude skate live this weekend was crazy. That really got me hyped. I know it’s not video, but real life.
What else you do beside skate? For work or for fun?
Well I work so that I can skate. When I’m not skating, I like to breathe a lot of air. That shit’s really good for you man. Also trying to do a little yoga. I have a little routine when I wake up before I go skate. Just taking care of myself so that I can go skate.
Are you superstitious? Or do you believe in luck?
I’m a little ‘stitious. Yesterday I was doing this job for work and I had to steam a bunch of stuff, and some of it was umbrellas I had to open up inside. I was like, nah, I’m not opening these umbrellas. So I guess I am a little superstitious. Somebody else opened it and I steamed it, but I wasn’t trying to get that bad luck.
What’s it like skating with Shanahan? He shot most of these photos. How’d you meet him?
He was actually my Woodward counselor when I was a little kid. My counselor got injured so they switched my group to John’s. It was before he was pro, but he was still tall, like all the way up there, and doing crazy shit. It’s just sick to skate with someone that’s probably more in love with skateboarding than I am. He’s so obsessed with it. It’s like all he wants to do is skate. He loves learning tricks and shit, even if we’re on a crazy session he’ll still be trying to learn new stuff. He learned all this transition shit recently, he learned how to take photos. He’s just always been that way.
If you could go back and tell something to yourself when you first started skating, what would it be?
I wish I put more time into skating flatground. I can barely flip my board. It’s like flipping a coin dude, I have no idea what’s gonna happen. So I definitely wish when I was a kid I put more time into that, just trying to figure out flip tricks. But I like skating transition, that’s my shit.
Thanks? Shoutouts? Whatever?
Shout out everybody, everyone in the world.

================================================================================

Video by Dean Kubasek and Mason Tabet.
Photos by Alex Cole
.
Interview with Jake Alsept by Zach Moeller.
How close was this trip to not happening? What allowed it to end up working out?
This entire trip was actually made possible due to Grandma receiving COVID recovery grant money from the city of Albuquerque. There were 5 business sectors eligible for this particular grant and we qualified under the “Arts & Entertainment” category. In the application I explicitly stated that the funds would be used for filming skate videos. Honestly thought it was a long shot at the time but, to my surprise, the city approved our application. Funny enough when I went to pick up the check I met the city worker that reviewed our application, dude’s a hero.
Covid has been crazy for everyone. How has Grandma been affected?
Since Grandma started in September 2019, it’s actually kinda hard to say. Basically the entire time Grandma has been a thing we’ve been dealing with the rollercoaster effects of COVID. On one hand, the lockdowns and mass layoffs were unequivocally bad for not only the business but our personal lives. On the other hand, Albuquerque really took care of us in terms of small business COVID recovery grants. I’d say everything has broken even to an extent, hard to truly quantify though.
For those who don’t know, what can you tell people about Grandma Skateboards?
Grandma is a D.I.Y. skateboard company based in Albuquerque, NM. All of our boards are manufactured by hand in my garage. We do limited board releases seasonally but most of the boards we make get skated by the crew.
How stoked was the crew when the trip worked out?
So stoked. For weeks before the trip we were all sending spots back and forth in our group chat. Honestly the trip didn’t even feel real for me until we were all at the airport. The whole experience was a blast.
Who all was in the squad that came out east?
The crew was comprised of Agush Agushi, Alex Paz, Bryce Sowards, Jack Justice, Jon Rogers, Miles Turner, and Thomas Bowers. The homies filming and shooting photos were Alex Coles, Mason Tabet, and Nicky Glaser. As well as myself and Joey Martinez, for emotional support.
How long was the trip?
We were out in NYC for about a week.
Was it anyone’s first time in New York?
About a third of the crew had never been to New York previously. It’s honestly super fun being with people experiencing the city for the first time. I’d say we definitely did it right.
You guys stacked a lot of clips. How did you stay so productive?
Given that we were pulling up to the first spot around 1 or 2PM every day, our productivity is truly a testament to how good these dudes are. There were only about 3 or 4 clips we got that were battles. Other than that, I’d have to credit the dollar slice spots for keeping everyone fueled up and in peak skating form.
Did the crew party at all?
These dudes were pulling double duty between skating and partying. Homies drained the margarita machine at the Italian restaurant around the corner from our hotel almost nightly. Shotgunning White Claws in hallways of the hotel, smoking about an ounce of weed broken up into a couple dozen joints, these guys are pros.
Did you link with anyone while you were out here? Any shoutouts?
We met up and skated with a couple NM homies that are now living in Brooklyn, shout out to Dart and Khalil for sure. Big shout out to Andrew and Daniel Lutheran, true Albuquerque skate royalty, got to skate with them for a couple days. Also got to skate with Daniel Vargas and Ryan Lay for a bit, nicest dudes. Last but not least gotta say what’s up to Brad Cromer a.k.a. Bradthew, dude was honestly putting on a demo at Blue Park while we were there.
Did you see anything crazy while out in the streets?
Bryce and I saw a dude casually pooping on the sidewalk one night while getting dollar slice, that was pretty wild. Jon watched some homie try to instigate a fight unsuccessfully. Dude ended up getting his bag snatched by a random passerby, kinda justified I think. Other than that, I’ve gotta say it was surprisingly tame.
What are the biggest differences between NYC and Albuquerque?
Oh man, there are so many. In a lot of ways, Albuquerque is the antithesis of NYC. Everything around here closes by 8 and our nightlife options are confined to about 4 blocks downtown. You could actually fit Albuquerque’s population into Manhattan 3 times over. Everything here is really spread out with limited public transportation options, there is no hopping on a bus / train to the next spot. Don’t get me wrong though, I love Albuquerque, it’s just an​other world entirely.
​Skate spot wise, Albuquerque is known for its ditches, notably, the spots along Indian School Ditch. No buttery marble out ledges, no corporate plazas with perfect manny pads, we’ve just got crust. It’s honestly no wonder these dudes put in so much work in NYC.
Does Grandma have any projects in the works? What’s in store for 2022?
We’re currently stacking clips for a full length. Shooting it all in VX, really hyped on that. We’ve also got an L.A trip coming up in March, definitely gonna get some quality clips out there. Other than that, we’re just working on the Spring release stuff right now. Really optimistic about Grandma in 2022.

================================================================================

Interview by Marcus Waldron. Photos by Sean Coates.
You never know where things are going to take you. For TJ Atoms making music with his friends, skating, and hanging out downtown has led to starring in a major TV show produced by the RZA. We talk with the Philadelphia native about the making of
Wu Tang: An American Saga
, and catch up on his other projects.
What’s up man?
Big fan of Skate Jawn homie!
Yo respect! Did you start doing music first or skateboarding?
I started skating first bro. I started skating at City Hall, Love Park, when Love was there, and Cecil too. After that, I linked up with a couple of homies who skated and that’s when we started the Bakery Boys. That’s when we really started making music.
I remember seeing you guys at Love Park, I feel like you were there all the time. Do you have any stories from there?
I remember the last couple days of Love, it was freezing fuckin’ cold. We had trash cans on fire! People were still going down the Love gap. I just remember thinking, “How the fuck are people skating this hard in this cold weather bro?” It was definitely below freezing. My feet were fucking frozen. All I could do was pose and skate around. It was legendary. I remember getting chased out by bike cops, I mean y’all probably still do, but that shit used to be crazy. They took their job so seriously. Even as an adult, I don’t understand why bike cops went so hard against skaters.
You been skating much?
I always got a cruiser board. I stay with a cruiser board, but I don’t really skate as much as I used to. I’m actually writing a skate movie that I’m shooting in Philly, that I’m gonna have to catch up on my skills for. I’m gonna need some extras too so I’ll probably call Skate Jawn for those and get a reporter down there.
You been following skating much? Watching videos?
I keep up with a couple homies. I haven’t seen a video in a minute now. I know Ishod still killing shit, that’s the homie. I keep up with the homies that I’ve seen come up. Jahmir Brown, that’s my guy.
So I’ve heard this story, you said you were chilling in the park one day and someone came up and cast you for this music video right?
I was just chilling at Rittenhouse, we probably just got kicked out of Love Park and I was just chilling. Some lady just came up to me out of the blue, “You got the style I’d like for this video.” It ended up being an August Burns Red video. Shout out August Burns Red, heavy metal rock band. I never really listen to heavy metal at all, but for me to get in their video helped me actually start my acting career low key. So that’s like a rare fun fact bro.
What was the filming for that music video like? Was that your first time on a real set?
It was the first time I was on a real set. It was like a fuckin movie set. They had trailers and food, you know how it is with skater bro, we were really outside trying to get food. Like we used to steal from Wawa type shit. But they had free food, they paid me, I was like “Nah this is it.” We fuckin’ lit a car on fire and we busted out the windows with bats. I was sold after that bro, I was like, “I think I wanna be an actor now.” I was fully submerged in music as well so I was like music is dope, but that whole experience is different.
When you went in to audition for the
Wu Tang: An American Saga
, you tried out for Raekwon, right? What made you go for him?
I had no choice, they just had an audition process and my agent will just see something that’s kinda similar to the characteristics that they’re submitting and the director will say yay or nay. They basically called me in for Raekwon and I knew I didn’t look anything like him so I just did my best and they called me back in for ODB out of nowhere. I didn’t think I could do ODB, but I went in a few times, and they ended up sticking with me. They made a great decision. They got crazy insight for that though because I didn’t think I was ODB at all.
You’re pretty much self-taught. Do you have any actors that you would say are big influences or anyone that you speak to for advice with acting?
I don’t really have any acting OG’s yet, I’m fairly new but people I grew up watching like Tupac, Denzel, Will Smith, those are the people that inspire me with what they bring to their characters. They’re traditional actors, but they have their own twist to it. That’s what acting is about to me, bringing a little bit of yourself to the character.
Are you working on a clothing line?
I’m actually setting up a photoshoot right now. It’s a high fashion streetwear brand. I’m definitely getting a skate team so if any skaters reading this, go reach out to me
@tjatoms
on IG and Twitter. I’m trying to do it big man. Probably gonna do a skate video for the first couple months, go on a tour you know what I’m saying. I’m a super fan of the skate world. I remember those Chocolate videos and Fanatic videos where they could just go on tour and skate, that was a part of my childhood so I wanna do some cool shit like that.
What’s up with your music right now, got an album you’re working on?
Yeah, I got a dope ass album about to drop in a few months but I’m gonna start dropping singles. I might drop one tomorrow actually, it’s called “Potato Chips.” It’s the first song on the album. I’ve been working hard on music man, just making sure my sound is on point and making sure my quality of music is better than the quantity. You know a lot of people put out a lot of shit and it all sounds the same. Nobody sounds like me, so I just make sure the quality is the best I can put out. I might just drop that shit tomorrow for y’all.
You planning any music videos for this new stuff?
I got a bunch of music videos in the cut right now I’m just sorting out the footage actually. I edit some of my music videos myself, I’m like a one man army. I chop the video, I make the song, my homie shoots the videos. I’m working with other directors right now, but I got a bunch of videos in the cut that I’m about to start flooding the streets with.
Do you think skateboarding has helped you get to where you are now or helps you do what you do?
To be honest, if it wasn’t for skateboarding I don’t know where I would be. Skateboarding helped me get out the hood physically, showed me a new life. I met new people, and it put me in certain places. If I wasn’t skating I wouldn’t have been downtown that day, I probably would have been somewhere in the hood with the homies. Since I was skating I was downtown able to have that opportunity present itself. So that’s why I keep skating dear to my heart cause I really don’t know where I would be without skateboarding.
Respect man, thanks for doing this. Anyone you want to thank?
I wanna thank the whole Wu-Tang Clan, God, my mom, you know the people that supported me, Baked Life. It was a whole group of people, the community. Shout out to the community.

================================================================================

Interview by Sean Bendon.
Photos by Jon Frazier.
How’s it going?
Chilling. Michigan winter is setting in. It’s snowing so no skating is happening right now.
You’re currently living in Grand Rapids, why did you decide to move there instead of say California or New York?
Michigan is a good home base. It might not always seem like it, but there’s a lot to do. I spent a lot of time in Grand Rapids growing up and skating with the dudes at Premier, it just made sense to move down here from Ludington. I have been thinking about making a move, not sure where yet though.
What’s good with Premier?
It’s the shop that I ride for, and where a lot of my good friends work. They just celebrated their 20 year anniversary. Last night we had the shop Christmas party. They rented out the upstairs of a bowling alley and we had some fun. I’m not much of a bowler, I barely broke 100 last night.
Have to ask, do you skate with Kalis?
Yeah, I’ve known Josh since I was a little kid. I met him at my local park. He moved back to Michigan a few years ago to raise his kids and I’ve been skating with him since he moved back. Real skate rat.
Did he help you get hooked up with DC?
Yeah for sure. I was out skating with him and he was like, “Yo, you wanna get some shoes?” Actually, I’m not sure he even asked, cause he knew I was down. Thankful for him hooking that up and looking out.
Having Kalis look out for you is pretty special. Michigan has some pretty heavy hitters, any personal favorites?
Adam Mueller and Nick Rainey out of Detroit. Josh, Auttiesh Danger, Nelson Solivan, and Teddy Seeley from Grand Rapids.
When did you get on Snack?
I was in SF in 2015 and I was skating Soma park. Some dude in a green Snack hat saw me skating there and said he knows a guy at Snack and I should send some footage. Premier was starting to get their gear at the time and I was down. Sent some footage after I got back from SF. It all kinda worked out from there. I can’t remember what the guy in the green hat looked like.
You’ve gotten to do a fair amount of traveling under the Snack budget, does any one place stand out in particular?
Jamaica. We had all the homies on that trip exploring the island and the people of Jamaica showed us a lot of love. Every time we go on a Snack trip we meet a few people that help showing us around and we end up having a good connection.
While you were in Jamaica you went to Laza Morgan’s (Jamaican American reggae singer) mansion?
Yup, we were headed there on a bus from Kingston and we talked the driver into renting out the bus for $100. He drove us to the end of the island, but Bonesaw only had a sticky note with directions on it. So we stopped and asked a local how to get there. We found someone named Pepe who said he knew the way, and he guided us. We made it there but not before he had us stopping at a few bars and a roller skating rink.
Sounds like an adventure. How was Morocco?
Morocco was a lot of fun. I flew into Rabat and met a guy at baggage claim who told me he’d be heading towards the train station. Him and his mother dropped me off and helped me get a train to Casablanca. Everyone was really nice out there. Good spots and good hash too.
Would you say skating has been your main way to travel or did you travel much before?
Growing up on a farm and being in the woods made me love exploring, but skating has definitely opened it up. You get to meet people and make some great experiences.
Is there anywhere you wanna go, whether skating or not?
I’ve been wanting to go to the Northeast more. Like Philly, Boston, and New York.
You had some filming credits in the Snack video
Once Upon a Time in Mexico
, how did that come about?
I had burnt out winter legs and Sam left us the camera. I’ve had a few VX’s and used to film a bunch so if anyone wanted to get anything I’d be down.
Got any videos or projects you’ve been working on?
I’ve been working on a video with my friend Fausto Fernandez for a few years now. I’m also filming with my homie Matt Eggebeen around Grand Rapids. he’s the guy when it comes to fixing and finding the spot. He’s got a good eye for that.
Dues Paid
, a video out of Cleveland by my friend Jesse Braun and a Snack x Deep Dish video.
Besides skating in Michigan a lot, you fish?
Got into fishing this past summer cause we get days where it get too humid to skate. My friend Chad and I would grab our poles and head to the Grand River. Fishing is kinda like skating. You’re just looking for a cutty bank spot where you can post up with the homies and drink some, smoke some. Even if you don’t get the catch, you’re still having a good time. I got a mean tackle box.
Shoutouts?
Bonesaw and the Snack boys, Josh Higginson, Fausto and all the homies at Premier skate shop. Mike Jasinski, Kalis, Mike Hoag, Jon Frazier, Matt Eggebeen, and Andrew Collar.

================================================================================

What’d you do for go skateboarding day?
We had the adult Go Skateboarding Day with Shut and Oakley. Oakley built twenty four replicas of the Lockwood picnic tables and sent them out to all the cities, so they gave us one. So we skated like the day before and yesterday, just a best trick thing open at the shop. Before that just pushing around in Brooklyn from bar to bar, park to park, went over the bridge just slappied around, then ended up over at a big party. This is the second year that we did the adult go skate day, so we kinda go the opposite way from the crowd of five thousand kids. It gets retarded so we get to skate a little bit more, kind of just enjoy ourselves a lot more. But yeah, Shut’s always trying to put something together and make it happen.
Where you from?
I’m originally from Ukraine, I moved to New York in 2001, like two weeks before 9/11 and I’ve been out here since.
How long did you live in the Ukraine?
I was eleven, so I guess about half my life over there.
When and where did you start skating?
I started skating in Brooklyn, about a year after I moved to New York. I was at my friends house and he had some old Dragon Ball Z board or something and we were just dicking around in his front yard. We did it all day and I was like, “Dude this is sick, lemme borrow this board.” And he was like yeah whatever. So I took his board and I was just messing around with that and a few months later my mom got me a real board, and I’ve been skating ever since.
Since you moved to America, have you lived in NY the whole time?
I mean I travel around a bunch, but I’ve always lived here, this is home base. Like in the winters I’d go to Phoenix cause I’ve got a bunch of friends out there, hang out with them, go down to Florida. Last year my buddy and I rode our bicycles from NY to SF through the south. That was like an eight month trek just getting away from NY, but I always come back, I can’t imagine living anywhere else.
You do a lot of bike rides, how’d you get into that?
Honestly that just started off as a joke one day after work. We were chilling at a friends house and I think we saw that video of the dudes skating from Boston to NY (Backstreet Atlas) and we were like, “Dude let’s skate across the country, we got this!” And then we were like realizing the logistics of that, and that it wasn’t really possible, so we were like maybe we could bike it. So at the time our buddy was working at Chrome, and put together this scavenger bike race around the city, and he entered us in the contest. We ended up winning first place in that, and we won two bikes so we chose them to be the bikes we’d take across country. We got so amped up, but we had absolutely no support cause we had
done nothing like that before, so we just talked all this shit and ended up not doing it so we were like, “We’ve got to do something.” So we first rode up to the Philly for bum rush the spot, after like three parties all night in the city we went and grabbed our bikes and rode the eighteen hours to Philly and skated the contest. Then two weeks later after we got back, Michael from Shut was like, “Oh, do you want to go to Tampa Am?” and we were like, “Sure we’ll bike down there.” So we rode our bikes down
there and made a little video with that and then after that we got a little more traction and sponsorships so we were able to go across the country.
Da
mn, that’s sick. How long was it to Tampa?
NY to Florida on a single speed was like, three weeks or so.
How’d you get hooked up with Shut?
I guess I went to High School not far from the flagship store, so I was always just skating around the LES and my really close friend growing up with, Pat Hoblin, was riding for them at the time. I started hanging around the shop more and showing them some footage, and they started flowing me boards and I stuck with em. We’re like family now, been with em for almost four or five years now and I can’t imagine riding for anyone else now for sure.
You got any trips planned?
Uh we’re driving up to Vermont for Friendly Gathering next weekend, it’s like some music festival and this year is their first year incorporating skateboarding in it. So we’re driving up there, they built a mini ramp for us to skate. So we’ll probably have a cool time over there. And then next Tuesday I’m flying out to Ukraine for my grandpa’s birthday, I haven’t been out there in like five years so I’m a bit overdue. Then my girl’s gonna meet me out there and we’re gonna try to fly to Croatia then Barcelona, cruise out there and then back to here.
Damn, sounds like a sick trip.
Yeah and then at the end of the year we’re trying to put together another trip across country but maybe on motorcycles this time. I don’t think my knees can handle any more biking like that. We did it once so that was enough.
You ride motorcycles?
Not yet, I don’t even have a drivers license. In NY I never really had to get it, but figured now is the time.
So do you have a day job?
Haha, honestly just a bunch of random odd jobs from catering, to bartending, to doing production assistant. Personal assistant for Shady Perez, this photographer, just doing random stuff, last week he had me go to Madison Square Garden to document one of the boxing matches and all I had to do was give him the winners. So that was cool, I’d never seen boxing live or been to MSG so that was rad just to be right on the ring. I was a stunt double on this TV show last week. New York man, you gotta do a million things.
Sounds like you’ve been a lot of places, is there anywhere you haven’t been in the country that you’re trying to go to?
I’ve actually never been to like the middle of the country. Oklahoma, SLC, and Portland too, I’ve never been there. We stopped in SF and never made it further up. Oregon, Washington, and parts of Canada too, I’ve never been there.
What do you think is different about NY skateboarding?
The fact that everything is so close together, I mean you can just get on your board and go and find something. I feel like everywhere else it’s like the older you get, the more of a chore it becomes to go skate. Cause you have to get in the car, pick people up, go to the spot, get kicked out, get back to the car. As opposed to here you get kicked out of one spot, you just go twenty feet there’s another spot. It’s just a lot easier to link up with people and there’s just a whole lot of interaction here, it’s a lot
more condensed. I think it’s awesome.
Have you ever almost quit skating since you started?
Almost, but not really, when I was 18 I had finished two years of college and was kind of bummed on myself so I was about to join the Air Force cause I wanted to get my pilots license. Like I was like oh this will pay for my school and I’ll get paid to do it, and I was almost ready to do it and sign my paperwork, but then I got introduced to that kid Alex Rotondo through Matt, who I do Gnarmads with. They went to high school together and Alex had the idea for Tre truck and he was like, “Dude I want to get you involved.” So I ended up not doing the Air Force and just continued skating.
Anything you want to say to anybody reading this?
To anybody reading this, thank you for the support.
Skate Jawn
is sick as fuck! And just don’t be afraid to go out there and do your thing, fuck everybody else, just do you, do what makes you happy and don’t let anyone tell you otherwise.

================================================================================

Ok what are your sponsors?
Just Locwood…when it rises from the ashes like the rabid Phoenix that it is.
What’s your day job?
I’m a plumber, full time. Mostly installing in new houses or commercial buildings.
In no particular order who are five people who’s skating gets you inspired to get out ok your board?
David Clark, Callum Paul, Nik Stain, Andrew Allen, & Brian Brown.
What about five filmers who’s work you really like?
Geoff Campbell, Joe Perrin, Joe Bresseler, Adam Bos, and Jacob Harris.
And what about five full length videos you’ll always re-watch?
Windows and Doorways, Last of the Mohicans, Eleventh Hour, ATM Skateboards Animal Lovers, and Mosaic.
What are the best and worst things about Rochester?
Best: The cheap cost of living, the walking distance to any bar is 5 mins, no one skates here/there’s no skate scene.
Worst: The walking distance to any bar is 5 mins, no one skates here/there’s no skate scene, and everyone is living in the past.
What is your favorite day trip destination?
Albany is always a good time, or Syracuse.
What current video projects are you working on?
I’m working on a video with Taryn Ward that should be out this spring, and a project with Adam Bos.
What tricks do you hate seeing?
Haha…hardflips, smith kickflips, the slappy noseslide pretzel that’s trending now, and crooked grind kickflip out variations.
What’s your least favorite place to skate
?
I’m not a fan of Buffalo.
Favorite beer and mixed drink?
Heineken, a nice whiskey sour.
What’s your favorite tv show?
Star Trek the Next Generation.
Fantastic choice. What are your various aliases?
Jax, Jasper, Japeth (actual name), JP, J5th, and some coworkers have started calling me Spicy J.
What’s up with your brother Evan?
He can Muska flip ANY quarter pipe with the brightest neon shirt and Walmart running shoes.
Damn that’s impressive…any last words?
Yea thanks to my boss for not firing me and thanks to Evan for teaching me switch 180s and always being down to fist fight.

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis.
What have you been doing today?
I was skating with some friends, then I got a back massage, now I’m slow cooking a pork shoulder.
Sick. Where are you from originally?
I’m from Linenhurst, IL. It’s a small town, at the time when we lived there it was mostly just cow farms.
Who was the most popular skater when you first started skating?
Probably Steve Fauser.
What’s the best thing about the Midwest?
The food. It’s just got so much soul in it. It tastes the best, out West it’s just healthy kale avocado crap.
Where you at now, and how long have you been here?
Been living in the Mission District of San Francisco for seven years.
How many different mustaches have you rocked in those seven years?
A few, right now I’m on seventies porn star.
True, what and who got you into digital photography?
I tore my ACL when I was 19, and I still wanted to go skating with my friends. I was going to college at the time, I couldn’t afford to get a digital camera and this photographer, Cory Peterson, gave me his old one. At the time I was going to school for film photography, so it really contradicted itself and I had to basically reteach myself everything. They didn’t even really have digital classes right then.
What were you studying specifically?
I wanted to be a darkroom technician, like a printing master for someone who was actually really good at film photos.
So what made you do the digital switch?
I couldn’t afford at the time to shoot any more film, I was going to college, I was broke. I was shooting Walgreens brand film trying to shoot sequences, and it just wasn’t working out. And my buddy Cory didn’t want to see me stop shooting skating, so he gave me the Nikon d70 and at the time I was shooting Nikon film, so I was able to take all my lenses from that and the story kept going.
Looking to current day digital photography, do you recommend going to college or going to Youtube?
I think college is a good way to go in general, it just gives you the focus time you need. As opposed to Youtubing and relying on yourself to know what you’re doing, it’s just better to go to school for it.
Remember your first published skate photo?
Yeah, it was in Photograffiti, I was thirteen years old and it was this kid Donnie Sanafeld doing a boardslide and at the bottom of the rail it had caution tape. The caption was “caution tape adds boardslide spice photo: Zorro.”
Sick. Does skateboarding pay your bills?
Kind of man… I mean on a good month, haha
Any advice for kids to get their photos published?
Don’t move to California thinking you’re gonna be here to shoot with pro skaters, just skate with your friends and it’ll all work out. That’s what I did.
Favorite person to shoot with?
(Ryan Garshell from background) GX baby! GX!
Yeah, probably G. I mean, Ryan’s just the facilitator of the session, you know, you meet up with him and everything else is gonna pan out. And the one dude I love to shoot with all the time is Al Davis. You know he’s funny, creative, just dope and I love being around that dude. He’s just smart.
Whats your favorite weed?
Minderaser, maybe Third Hump in the Camel’s Back…
That’s it? That’s the top two?
That’s pretty good if you ask me, if you can’t find those two you ain’t looking hard enough.
Lui Elliot: Who’s someone that you’ve shot recently that you hadn’t really heard of that’s really good?
I shot a photo recently of this kid Cory Glick from my hometown in Illinois, his mom used to drop him off at the park with the silver helmet, double wrist guards, the whole nine. He rips now! He came up to SF and fucked some shit up I was blown away.
Any famous people from your hometown?
I guess Jon Dickson…
No like celebrities.
Shit, maybe some pro fishermen.

================================================================================

Bill is a plumber by trade, a Yinzer by nature, and a pain in the ass by choice. He’s also one helluva good dude and when he gets his mind on something, it’s going to happen. And he will argue with you if try to get in his way. This time around no one was arguing when he asked to raise funds to build a mini ramp in the backyard of the becoming infamous Hemway house. This gofundme worked out much better than the one where he tried to raise enough to buy a twelver. Read below to learn how it all went down.
So, you finally got a gofundme to work!
Yeah, I was bored out of my mind the first two weeks of this shit so I built a box to skate, skated it twice and decided to build a mini ramp. Colt Cannon gave me seven dollars and my Grandma gave me a hundred bucks.
How long did it take, from the start of fundraising to first grind?
I re-cut the tranny three times, and probably rebuilt it twice. I had to build a deck for the ramp to lay on so that took a week. I’ve never built a mini ramp before so it was a lot of trial and error and me losing my mind. Maybe three weeks in total.
Did anyone help you build it?
Yeah the roommates helped a little and a few friends. I am still working during all this so I would come home and work on the ramp and build it on the weekends.
How is Hemway house doing through all this?
Everyone is basically laid off so they have just been skating everyday and cooking every night at the house. So honestly not a lot has changed for them.
And how about for yourself?
The first few weeks I had more time then I knew what to do with myself. I was laying around in my room reading, watching Netflix, and trying to figure out what to make of this shit going on. That got pretty depressing after awhile, so I decided to make the best of my time and do shit I’ve always wanted to do but never had time to. Started going on long bike rides, making some juice, and now I have a ramp in my backyard. So I’m actually starting to enjoy this pause in life and trying to make the best of it.
Who’s gonna skate this thing the best out of the house?
Brian Powderly.
What else have you tried to gofundme?
I once fundraised a case of beer on the site, I think it was for $15 and I got $10, so Rolling Rock it was that evening.
Blunt fakie first t?
Absolutely not. I honestly haven’t skated since I started building this thing. I got one after a few awkward bails today though.
So what’s gonna last longer, this ramp or humanity?
Probably humanity, my landlord doesn’t know about the ramp yet.
So last question, why’d you put the whipped cream in the steak marinade that one time?
It’s good on ice cream isn’t it?
Yr fried. Thanks Bill!

================================================================================

So how’s yr room working out for you?
It’s good, it’s uhh, a lot of work, but it’s good.
What kind of work?
Well there’s always something to fix, or there’s always the next thing that would make it better aesthetically, or functionally, there’s always some fucking thing to do. Whether it be like filling something with wood putty, or cutting some weird piece of trim that’s supposed to sit in an area. It’s crazy, its like a boat or something. There’s always something to figure out or tighten up.
When did you move to NY?
Well I guess I kinda moved here three years ago, but I was back and forth between California and New York. Then I got sick of being on the road all the time, so I built my bedroom and I’ve been here for about a year.
I saw yr art in one of the new Thrashers, it was fucking sick. I didn’t really know you did that. How long have you been doing art?
I kinda got into it in high school. I’ve always kinda liked it, and then it just swirled, but I’ve always kinda done it.
You do paintings mostly?
Yeah, kinda, but sorta starting to realize that everything I do sort of seems to be classified as art. It’s kind of like a disability, you know, another thing that’s not gonna make me any money but it’s gonna take up all my time. And then you’re just like shit, I guess I’m a fucking artist.
You ever try to do anything with yr art? Have a show, or sell any?
Sometimes I’ll sell art, but not on the regular. I’ve had art in a couple shows, there was an Orchard show, and occasionally somebody will buy something, and that’s pretty nice. Stefan bought one of my paintings, that was fucking rad. And then before that I had a family portrait commissioned. I don’t even know if I really want to try to get my shit in galleries. Cause I know it doesn’t make sense, I mean, unless you’re in the one percent of artists, it’s almost like a hassle trying to sell it. It might just be a bigger bitch than working a job, and you might not even sell it after trying real hard. So I don’t know if I want to put my energy into trying to make money off something that’s next to impossible.
Yeah it’s tough, there’s a lot of politics and stuff to it too…
Totally, it’s scary! Its like this fucking cool corral, where if you wanna do it, I guess there’s all these hoops you gotta jump through. I don’t really even know what the fuck they are. So you’d have to go out, figure out what they are, start jumping through em… I just don’t know if I wanna go down that road. I feel like I should focus on trying to be a electrician, or something that’s gonna work a little more. But I can’t seem to stop making it, so I’ll keep making art. I don’t know if I’ll try to really sell it. Fuck I hate work though, like selling art for living? That’d be the fucking dream.
What are you doing right now for work?
I’m building roof gardens in Manhattan. It’s alright, it’s pretty cool. I like it.
Do you consider yrself healthy?
Uh, no. I gotta get on it. I gotta really make a push for health. Its hard! Money, time, diligence, and it seems like every time you start to get healthy, it’s so easy to fall off. Like I was on this regimen, doing pull ups, sit ups, and I was starting to not drink every day, and I was all fucking pumped. And then I was partying a weekend or two ago in Vermont and everyone fell on top of me in the mosh pit when I was trying to get my car keys and I bruised my ribs. So now I’m trying to heal, and in NY all you wanna do is drink beer, eat pizza, and get coffee, and do everything that doesn’t make your body run well. But I’m trying, I gotta.
You ever do yoga or any shit like that?
I do, but I got a fucking spur on my hip bone and it causes the bones to pinch. The tough thing about yoga is you look over and you see fucking grandma Jo doing something and you’re like I’m gonna fucking do that too, even though it’s not supposed to be a competitive thing. So you go after it and it’s just bad for you. I was doing that shit twice a day in California, cause I had free yoga on the beach, and it was fucking tight. But I definitely hurt myself.
How were you able to build yr room, do you have a background in carpentry?
Yeah after high school I went to a furniture school, and I’ve always built shit out of wood at home. You know my dad had a couple tools and we built ramps and stuff. I just was kinda going through a breakup and didn’t have a place to live. I started collecting materials and just went for it. I had no idea how to do it, so I just puzzled it together. And it’s alright, it was a good learning experience cause it makes you aware of how much work it is. Cause I used to be like, I’m gonna build a fucking boat and sail away. And now I’m like, I don’t know if I could even do that! Building shit takes awhile.
Who are some of yr favorite painters? Anybody that inspires you?
I dig Andrew Wyatts paintings, and I dig that dude Turner. I forget what his first name is. He’s like a hot shit painter from way back when. Nicolas Cherelsa, I forget but he’s a really cool surrealist painter, Wimblow Holder, and Michelangelo a lot. Dude I dig fucking art stuff man, that shit’s cool. It’s fun to go to the museum and trip out on what other people have done.
You plan on being in NY for a while? What do you think of it?
I love my roommates you know, and it’s hard not to be with my family. I don’t know how long my bedroom will last, I mean my landlord hasn’t even seen this shit. But I dig New York, it’s a lot of fun. This is the first time I’ve tried to settle down since years ago. It’s pretty fucking cool, but I was here last winter and I got pretty fucking bored. Like I wanna leave and go to Hawaii and work and then come back maybe? Come back when it’s nice, reassess my situation. Make sure NY is where I want to be.
Do you go out much in NY?
I’m such a grandpa man, people have to drag me out of the house to do fucking anything, cause I got 201 projects. If I’m not working, I’m fucking working on one of my projects. And now on the weekends we’ve been going on these road trips camping and skating. I don’t really get sucked into the bar scene too easily. I don’t like the bar, I can’t stand not hearing anything people are saying, and I don’t like feeling like I’m putting in a fucking shift with people at a bar and my feet start to hurt. I’m a grandpa.
You down with group texts?
The initial group text is always sick, like you go on a trip and everyone’s joking around but eventually the material gets so old, people just repeat the same fucking jokes over and over again. It’s like I gotta get out, yr blowing up my phone, my battery’s dying, the material isn’t even funny anymore, and I can’t think of anything to spice it up.
I never even participate in those things
.
It can be pretty fucking fun man. Like I filmed myself taking a shit the other day and sent it to like eight friends group text and they were so horrified! It fucking ruled. Like I pissed, pulled my wiener out of the way, then filmed and watched it, and I was like “oh my god! That’s disgusting!” I captured it so well. And I sent it to everybody and everybody was beyond mad. I think that’s probably my greatest moment on group texts.
What’s the longest you’ve ever spent traveling?
I did these trips with Elliot Vecchia, Xeno, and Doug Moore. We got a van and we were so hyped on the skating that we drove across country, but then we just kept it going. We just had people flying in and out of the van, like Randy from New Orleans, he flew to SD after we drove through NoLa to meet us there. It was just never ending. Every time you go to a new town and everybody’s fucking hyped on the energy. When you get visitors it brings the energy, just like “sick! I’m gonna show you my town,” and then you remember why you like your town, and you’re either crashing in the van or sleeping on someone’s couch. We drove to California and back. Maybe two months, three? It’s hard to say.
Do you feel like you tried hard to get sponsored? How did you get the sponsors you have?
Yeah I definitely tried hard. You know when I grew up watching Sorry and all these types of videos, I was really at an impressionable age. So that to me, was how you got sponsored. Film these sorts of video projects. It seems like such a good idea cause if you can do it, and pull it, there’s the chance that you might not have to work. But you can put work into your skating. And I definitely thought the idea of that was pretty badass. I definitely tried. I look back and it was kinda weird that I tried to document it all, and all that shit. But I guess that’s just fucking the way it goes. The people you’re watching, you try to imitate them.

================================================================================

What’s up Dave so let’s start with the basics, How old are you and how long have you been skating?
I’m 22 and I have been skating for about a decade.
That’s cool how did you get into skating?
My neighbor had an old banana board, and his driveway had a hill we used to bomb. That lasted for an entire summer before I got a real board.
Nice you started the right way, just finding a board and bombing hills with it unlike nowadays, most people see skating on tv or video games. Are you from Portland or are you down here for a different reason?
I was born in Worcester, Mass but I grew up in Waterville, Maine. I moved down to Portland just to get away and start fresh. Not to mention the best skating in Maine takes place here.
You got that right. So you’re just chilling in Portland skating crusty Maine spots just living the life huh?
I went to school for a couple years but wasn’t feelin’ it. I would much rather work full time and just shred while I’m young.
That’s cool man, you seem to have an old school skate soul to yourself. Going fast and pushing through anything. What inspires your skating?
I love looking for new spots and spots that people overlook. I think what keeps me motivated is knowing that there are spots everywhere that haven’t been touched and I look forward to finding a trick for them, but above all that a good crew and a cold brew are a must!
Who do you usually skate with?
I would say I skate now with Alex Winslow the most as of recent. A bunch of homies just moved out to Colorado and to Texas so the scene isn’t as thick as it once was but we still have a good crew…Matt Seavy, Ben Cironi, Mike G, Charlie Flowers, Kelsey Markee, Dave Green and the list goes on for days.
So Maine and Simple should be dropping anytime now and you’ll be having a part in that. Do you plan on working on the Maine Skate- boarding video?
You were the first person I thought of when I decided to make a video for the site. Yeah man I would love to film a part in that! I have a huge list of clips I want to get, we just need to make it happen!
Well I’m down whenever you are! Thanks for doing this interview for
Skate Jawn
, would you like to thank anyone or give any shout outs to the homies?
Thanks to Skate Jawn and Travis Storer for hooking up the interview. Thanks to Ride 207 and Maine Skateboarding for helping the scene grow. Sam Mckenna and Jimmy Collins for shooting the photos and thanks to all the people who are skating to have a good time because that’s what it’s all about.

================================================================================

What’s up Lorenzo? How’re you enjoying New York so far?
I’ve never been here to skate and it’s way more fun than I’ve ever had, even though it kind of sucks that you have to take the train everywhere.
When are you going to move here?
Oh dude, don’t do that. It’s coming soon, I’m trying to graduate first. It’s expensive to live here if you don’t have your shit straight, and I’m definitely trying to have my shit straight.
What are your thoughts on Virginia? Tell me about where you’re from.
Virginia’s cool. It’s laid back, but the skate scene is pretty divisive. I wish people would connect more because that’s the point of skateboarding.
Do you see that division issue improving or do you think it’s a lost cause?
It’s getting better honestly. As much as I can’t stand the scene sometimes, I’ve made so many connections and I love all the friends I have now. There’s always hope, but there was a point where it was just way too divisive and way too political. It almost seemed anti-skateboarding and it was super weird.
Who are some of your biggest influences on the board?
First off, Alexis Sablone. She’s like top to bottom inspirational. If you want to go local, all my little homies, Frank, Ray, even my big homie Kwamena, they all inspire me to do better and to be better. They remind me to have fun, that it’s not all serious. The old heads like Shane, how he’s still skating is so sick. Skating with those guys you can see the path where you were, the present, and where you want to be. They all help me to see the fun in it still. They’re not only focusing on getting clips, we can be like, “let’s fuck with this curb for an hour.” That’s skateboarding, it’s more about fucking around than always getting clips.
Do you think enough people prioritize the right stuff?
Yeah. You should cherish the sweet moments, and don’t let them inflate your ego. That shit is so disgusting. It should be about you wanting to have fun. Skating is free therapy.
What about some of your musical influences?
My music taste is kind of basic, but I love Blood Orange. Prior to that, Toro y Moi, ODB, Max B, Ab-Soul, and Earl have all been huge.
If you could only pick one part to watch for the rest of your life what would it be?
I’d have to pick something lo-fi, it can’t be too brute. I can’t get hyped on something too brute forever. Either Dill in
Photosynthesis,
because he’s the GOAT, or Eli Reed’s
Red Balloon
because it’s very stylish. You need to emphasize how you do it, not what you do. Oh yeah, and Louie Barletta in
Man Down.
How would you describe the climate of skateboarding right now?
I like all the small brands. I would rather encourage a small brand than somebody else that would come in and appropriate the culture and do something else with it to make a lot of money because they have the capital to. You want companies that come from skateboarding. The Olympics is going to come and we’re gonna have more eyes on us. Everyone really needs to band together, because we’re either going to do something great or fuck ourselves. If we got our shit together and didn’t fight we’d rule the world. We’d have so much influence. We want it to be authentic, skateboarders thrive on that (authenticity). So why don’t we take this business shit and make it authentic.
So you’re saying that more skateboarders need business degrees?
Fuck no. More skateboarders need to get buddy buddy with the business niggas and finesse them. If you put your whole life into something, you shouldn’t also have to drive Uber to support yourself.
Have you read any good books lately?
My favorite book from the last year and a half has been
Between the World and Me.
It’s by Ta-Nehisi Coates who writes for Black Panther Comics. It’s a book about how the black experience in America is really weird and people don’t really want to acknowledge how unfortunate it is. I’ve given my copy to three or four different people and they all loved it. I gave it to my girlfriend who was like, “thank you for this. I now have a different perspective on how you have to navigate.” His literary device is a letter to his kid, telling him “look out for these things because they will be the death of you, and here’s why.” It’s low key visceral but it’s not in your face.
That sounds like a good read.
It makes me think about how black kids in skateboarding have those same pressures. As black skaters, we deal with all these things in this book, but couple that with the common perception of being a skateboarder and some people will think “this is the most garbage kid ever.” People perceive you as all these bad things and it’s way worse. It can feel like you can’t win but even through that they still skate. If you look at Tyshawn you can see that he doesn’t give a fuck, he’s being authentically him. You can see people gravitating to that, like little white kids on Instagram wearing durags. When you’re young and you’re a skateboarder the race thing doesn’t matter, you want to emulate your favorite style or your favorite skater, not your favorite color. It’s sick as fuck, I have so much hope for the future.
Best styles?
Ray Barbee, Alexis Sablone, Al Davis, Dill, and Dylan of course.
I was told to ask what is your favorite drink to get at the bar.
Haha fuck you Jonah. White Russians.
You sure that’s right?
Or anything fruity haha. Passion fruit drinks are tough. I have zero ego when it comes to drinking, everyone knows drinking sucks so why not make it fun?
Do you think humanity is going to make it?
You want me to be real with you? My existential anxiety has been on 100 recently. Not that it seems helpless, but climate change is gnarly, political shit is getting gnarly, people are becoming polarized. There’s a lot more hate and a lot more division, but only on the surface. It’s just the media projecting that. It does make me feel like this shit might not last. But human tenacity is pretty gnarly so I don’t think we have anything to worry about.
Any shout outs?
Shout out to my family, to my girlfriend, and to anybody that supports me. Super shout out to any skate shop though because what they’re doing is so hard right now. They’re doing the Lord’s work. They’re doing the most thankless job and to do that is incredible. I could never walk into a Zumiez comfortably. I could not buy something online comfortably. There’s a lot of stuff I can’t do comfortably that I can do in a skate shop. You need that.

================================================================================

What’s up Charlie, what are you doing?
Hey, doing alright. Having a slow start to the day, trying to conjure up some boarding ideas. Might go get some strip club brunch with some homies for Mr. Purdue’s birthday.
Nice one, they’ve got a lot of strip clubs up in Oregon right?
There are a ton of em up in Portland, I think there are more per capita up there than anywhere else in the states. I moved down to California when I was still pretty young so I didn’t have the privilege of attending them.
Where exactly are you from in Oregon and what was it like growing up there?
Grew up in the Northwoods of Eugene. It was rad growing up there, a lot of open minded people and fresh air. The skate scene was pretty unbelievable, especially the first 5 or so years I skated. Eugene is a smaller town, and we didn’t really have a ton of spots to skate. Before some of the local parks were built you could roll up to a session at one of the schoolyards and there would just be crazy amounts of people there shredding.
Do you remember your first setup?
I believe the first setup I bought was a Zorlac, that or some kind of shop board. My dad skated back in the day and had this old Hobie board that I started tic-tacking around on. It was pretty sick, had some blue Tracker trucks and soft bright pink wheels.
What made you move to SF and how long have you been here?
I always wanted to move to SF growing up. A lot of the local Oregon videos that I grew up watching were split between Portland footage and stuff from the bay area. The Seasons videos as well as all the videos that Tucker Glasow made really gave me the urge to come down here. I’ve been living here for about 5 years now, and have loved every minute of it. There is always something going on that keeps this place exciting.
I heard you’re that guy with the brownies?
I’ve been slacking on the brownies lately, need to get back on it.
Where do you usually skate and how does skating here compare to skating in Oregon?
Really just been skating all over the place lately, pushing around downtown a lot. There are a lot of aspects about skating here that compare to Oregon, just spots being kinda rough and a little harder to skate. It not raining for half of the year is a plus, although it seems people like to gripe about the weather a lot more here.
What was it like going over to Oslo and skating? Had you ever done something like that before?
Going to Oslo was an incredible experience. Norway, and just the region of Scandinavia in general is very wealthy and everything they build seems to reflect that, making for some really unique spots. A lot of my family is scattered about Europe so I’ve traveled around a bit over there in the past, but this was the first trip I took over that way solely to skate.
There were plenty of ridiculous looking spots in that Treat, what was the weirdest thing you skated over there?
The craziest spot we skated at was probably this brand new film school in Oslo that we had spotted these glass banks at. We figured we would get about 10 seconds in before getting booted just because when you were standing on them you would be looking a few stories down into the building, and just the fact they were made out of glass we didn’t think they would be having it. However, after about 5 minutes of skating some of the staff came out and were super psyched on us skating it, and even offered Colton to come inside the school so that he could film up through the glass. We ended up skating there without getting hassled for as long as we pleased, and some of the cooks there brought out some ice cream they had just made for us. There is no chance that we would ever get away with skating something like that here, it was definitely a trip.
Any big plans in the works?
Just booked a trip to Costa Rica next month with the lady. I’m getting pretty excited just doing some more research on the country, going to try and surf a bunch down there. I’ve been trying to film a bunch with Colton lately for this video project we’re working on, which has been a lot of fun. Hoping to take some skate trips this summer back up north.
What’s it like filming with Colton?
Filming with Colton is great. He has such a good attitude, and kills it behind the lens. Like a lot of other skaters I wasn’t really feeling the HD stuff that started coming out, but Colton puts in a lot of work researching methods and experimenting with different filming techniques to give his footage a great look.
Working at Mission you’re dealing with derelicts on the regs. What’s the craziest SF story you got?
That’s a tough one, there are some many crazy people that wander in there that you learn just to space em out. A few months ago I was coming back from getting some drinks, and stopped by the shop to say what’s up. This kid Oswaldo who works there told me that crazy Mike Epps look-alike guy who hangs out in front of El Farolito and Vallarta demanding money and talking shit, had been fucking with some of the younger kids that hang out in shop. I saw he was still just down the block, so went over to ask him what was going on. I had always been cool with him, and thought he would be reasonable with me, but he immediately started getting crazy and ended up spitting on me. We ended up getting into a scuffle in the street, some neighbor vato guy comes out tripping on me so I just took off. Now I see him pretty much everyday, and he is totally cool with me, just acts like nothing ever happened. It’s kinda depressing sometimes to see all the people here with drug addictions and mental health issues that just seem to get brushed aside. Its clear that a lot of them need help, but I feel they usually don’t make it off the street unless they’re headed jail.
Shout outs?
Shouts to Think, Slap, Mission Skateboards, and all the homies here that are out and doing it.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller. Photos by Mike Miller. Video filmed by Sebastian Lopez, Justin Marko, Dan Raschko, and Marcus Lopez.
The Space Program
crew recently headed east and spent some time in NYC and Philly, managing to film a full edit and shoot some photos. Owner Sebastian Lopez shared some insight into the trip and the brand.
What’s up with The Space Program? How long have you guys been around and what can you tell me about your crew?
The company started in 2016 in Spokane, Washington state. At the time, I wanted to bring something that could highlight our local talent and get people stoked on a scene in an area that often gets overlooked. Being a group of unknown skaters is a lot of work when it comes down to growing a skateboard brand and building awareness, but we’re excited about what we have going on. The crew is really tight, they all get along and are super motivated to work on projects.
What inspired the trip out east and how was skating out here different out here than in the northwest?
We decided to make the trip over to the east coast, bring the whole team and film to gather footage for our upcoming full length video we are working towards. But after seeing the amount of footage we had and the great time we were all having during the trip, we decided that we had something cool in our hands and that it needed to be its own thing. We love visiting the east coast, being able to skate everywhere and experience the city in a very different way there. We connected with some great people during this trip too. Shoutout Nocturnal! They helped us out a bunch during our time in Philly.
Had everyone in the squad been to the east coast to skate yet? If not what were some first impressions?
A few of us traveled to New York back in 2017 but the team was much smaller at the time and not everyone could go. This time around we split the trip into two cities and wanted to spend a good amount of time in Philly. Feels like everyone travels to New York for skate trips during the summer, but Philly has a great vibe. We might have gone a little crazy eating cheesesteaks.
How long did you stay in each city?
Not very long. We packed the skate trip into eight days.
What was the crew’s favorite spot in NYC? What about Philly?
The Reggaeton basketball ledge spot and the curved flat bar rails were quite popular with the crew in NY. In Philly we all definitely spent some time at Muni. Skating there felt surreal just because of its history. That place is incredible, much respect to the locals who continue to push skateboarding there.
Did you find time to see the sights or was it always mission mode?
Honestly, I think everyone just wanted to skate and if we happened to see cool stuff along the way, that was a bonus. Usually our trips are pretty packed with a lot of skating. We did a little bit in New York. We all went to Times Square, and watched a group of street performers hustle a crowd for about $700 dollars in 30 minutes. They had it so dialed.
Both cities have a reputation for being a bit unpredictable at times. Any interesting situations you all found yourselves in?
Ohh definitely. The east coast delivered unpredictability! The crate challenge hype was going on during our time there, so we watched plenty of people get smoked doing it. We watched this dude who had no business doing it get to the very top, do the splits and then rib-cage a bunch of crates and crack his head open unconscious. Philly was also wild. Elijah almost got arrested just for doing a standing kickflip in front of the Love park sign. The cop was having none of it.
What’s next for The Space Program?
We’d love to do a team trip to Europe next year. But for now we’re finishing products for winter, spring and continue to stack footage for the next project which will hopefully be a full length.

================================================================================

It’s Go Skateboarding Day today, what you doing?
Well I just had knee surgery about a week ago, so I’m in the city lurking around with everybody but I can’t skate.
Where you from?
I was born in Upper Darby.
How far is that from Philly?
It’s like a ten minute walk from West Philly.
Where’d the name Jaybin come from?
My homie Pat was just calling me it one time on a trip we were on and I just kinda ran with it.
When was the first time you went to Love Park? What was it like?
I don’t even know, what’s the word I want to use… I just remember walking in there seeing a bunch of skaters, it was somewhere around summer of 2010. I just remember it was like a dream, it was just like Whoa.
And you skated through the last days?
Yeah. I mean the last days were going on for like weeks. But the very last day everybody was there, it was like below zero temperatures outside, and right before that weekend I was skating the couch ledge at Love and hit my back on the edge of the ledge and I just couldn’t walk. So that very last weekend I wasn’t able to skate, I still came out to lurk with everybody in the negative degrees but I couldn’t skate at all.
When did you start skating?
When I was like nine or ten.
When would you say you started to try and get clips and really go for it?
Like when I came to Philly in 2010 that’s when I really learned about filming and all that. It was like two and a half years of skating and then I started coming to the city and learning about it all.
You ever skate Paines?
Mmm, not really. That first summer it was open I was skating there a lot, but not any more.
You ever skate the Philly subway concourse?
Sometimes, but not really.
What’s the biggest skate trip you’ve ever been on? I saw that Bones Philly to Cali thing…
Yeah, I want to say that was the biggest one. The most memorable one to me was when DC flew me up to Canada, that was pretty dope cause I had never left the country before.
What was that trip like?
It was cool, it was for that Dime Glory shit so a bunch of people were out there. It was just dope to be there for that event.
Have you been in every Phat House videos?
Yes I have.
Those videos are sick, how do you know those guys?
Through skating that indoor park in Northeast Philly, X-park. Met them through there and we would just go out and film on the streets around the park. And Pat’s always been a big homie of mine.
You have any inspirations outside of skateboarding?
Honestly I get inspired by everything I come across. Music, movies, people, I’m inspired by a lot of things. Pretty much I stay inspired.
Hell yeah, that’s a good way to be. Aight, top five Philly skaters?
Shit, there’s definitely more than five, but if I had to choose. I’ll go with Chris Cole, Stevie, Kalis, Tom Asta, and Ishod.
Good list.
Heavy hitters.
What’s yr favorite Philly trick?
I’m gonna say bs nosegrind. Wenning.
Pop out. You turned 21 this year right? You tired of bars yet?
Yeah in January. Honestly I feel like I’ve been to bars more when I wasn’t 21. I been 21 and I haven’t even been going out like that.
When was the last time you were in New York?
Right before I got injured, so about a month ago.
What were you doing out here?
We were linking up with the DC team, we stayed at Shanahan’s crib. It was a good time, skated, got some clips.
If you could go on a skate trip anywhere in the world, where would you want to go?
I really want to skate Barcelona, I want to skate Macba so bad, it looks really dope there. Just skate all day and chill, almost like a Muni.
Plaza life. What’s your favorite plaza outside of Philly?
I like Freedom, but the two times I’ve been there I was injured so I want to get back out there and be able to skate it at my best you know.
You seem like you got pretty good balance, think you could walk a tightrope?
Ha, I don’t know about that.
That shit’s mad hard. What do you do when you can’t skate?
Well lately I’ve been resting a lot, which is probably good for my body because before I got hurt I was skating nonstop. I’ll just come out and chill with everybody even if I can’t skate. Just pull up to Muni, kick it, smoke, chill.
Stay amongst it. Thanks man.

================================================================================

Interview by Zach Moeller.
Do you remember the first thing you thought about this morning?
Where are the waffles at?
Where are you from?
Burlington, VT. It’s pretty low key. There’s a couple of filmers. Not many spots. Definitely a lot of cutty little curbs and stair sets that you can skate. You can have a good time skating around.
What’s your earliest memory of skateboarding? Was there an exact moment you remember getting hooked?
I think I do remember. I’d always mess around on Razor scooters. One day me and my cousins were butt bombing down this hill on our driveway, and we tried to ollie into the grass. I was like, “wow, this is way sicker than scootering.”
Do other people in your family skate?
My whole family actually. My mom skates, my dad skates, my two brothers and little sister skate. We got a whole squad. I’ll pull up to the skatepark and I’ll see the whole family there haha. It’s cool but it’s definitely funny to be at the park with the whole family.
Tell me about your brothers’ band.
My brother Axel and my brother Levi both started a band called Gone Wrong, it’s hardcore metal. They started off playing in the basement with a couple of their other homies, Russell and Miles. They started getting shows at these different basement spots in Burlington. It just started to pop off and people are loving it. My brother Levi started and runs the business side of things. He makes some crazy tee shirt designs and is coming out with a bunch of cool stuff. Recently they got an interview in
Thrasher
, a two page spread. It’s really dope.
That sounds legendary. Any wild stories from that trip?
While we in SF, Lowcard hooked us up with a place to stay in the Tenderloin. Shout out to Ama and Diana. We had our car broken into like two times, all of the homie’s camera equipment got stolen along with other clothes and stuff. The van got broken into, we found people sleeping in there. It was wild to stay in the Tenderloin
Have you ever skated in Europe?
Yeah, I went one time with my dad and a couple of my friends. We went to Malmo. They have skate spots there that are made to skate, but they’re public and designed by architects for skateboarding while also being there for people to hang out at. We also went to Copenhagen and it is great out there. Everywhere you look there is something there meant for skating. It’s a trip.
Who is hooking you up these days?
I’ve been on New Balance for a while, they’ve been hooking it up with shoes. Central Bookings International hook it up with clothing and boards. I’ve been on Bones Bearings for a while, and then just recently I got on Ace. I’m really hyped on that, I love Ace trucks, those are my favorite. Also my homies that I grew up skating with, the Worble guys, they definitely hook it up too.
What’s up with the Worble? How’d you first link up with those guys?
My dad taught them at Gordon College in Massachusetts. That’s when I first really started to get into skating because I would skate with them. The Mull brothers have always been helping us out and skating with us. They moved to California five years ago and started putting out videos. They got Man Ramp, which really blew up and is hilarious. They’re making a bunch of clothing and boards. Every time we go out to LA we meet up with them and skate and catch up with them.
You mentioned your dad is a professor, have you ever been to college?
I just graduated high school. I actually failed two classes during my last semester, but they let me pass because I played the Covid card. I enrolled into a community college and was trying to do the online thing, but around three quarters in lost motivation and dropped out. I’m down to go back to school, and it’s great to get an education, but I have to do it in person.
What do you like doing when you’re not skating?
I love doing graphic design and fucking around on the iPad. Recently I made a graphic for the Worble homies. I love checking out thrift stores. I like drawing a lot. Sketching faces and doodling.
Are there any projects you’re working on for this upcoming year?
Right now I’m working on a part for the Worble, they’ll be putting it out this summer I think. I’m flying out to LA to stay with them in a week, I’m pretty hyped to do that. That’s the main thing I’m working on right now.
Any final thoughts or shout outs you want to give?
Shout out to the Mull brothers for always helping me, shout out to my guy Dylan at New Balance, to my family, moms and pops always supporting. Shout out to, Ace, Bones Bearings, CBI, the Worble too. Stay safe kickin it with the homies. Eat healthy veggies and drink lots of water as well!

================================================================================

Whats your name/age/where ya from?
Kevin O’Shea, im 22 and im from Kailua, Hawaii on the island of Oahu.
Born and raised Haole boy in Hawaii! Just like me?
Yep.
When did you start skateboarding?
Around 2004, 8 years old.
Is it true Jason Park used to be your babysitter?
Yeah for a couple of years.
I noticed you’re always checking out the cars, do you have a motor vehicle obsession?
Absolutely, really into VIP style cars and lowrider import ones.
What is your dream car?
Nissan President.
Other than skating, what else are you into?
Body surfing and reading Street Pulse.
You have a spot list that you’re trying to handle, what’s at the top?
That Manoa 11 stair tail drop to rail and some sketchy roll ins.
Ever skate anywhere outside of Hawaii?
Only in California with Trevor and Troy Murrata. It was super fun.
Never the East Coast?
Not yet. I’ve been to Boston but it was before I was skating.
What are some unique things about Hawaii skate spots?
Lots of ditches, rains a bunch so they’re crusty, and lava rock walls everywhere.
Favorite Hawaiian food?
Rice with Kalua pig, haupia, poi.
What songs get you pumped to shred?
Norus – “Make a Move”, Cosmic Kids – “Reginald’s Groove” (Bicep Remix), and anything by the Jimmy Weeks Project.
Skate videos that make you want to get out in the streets?
Fakie Keiki
(Shitty Kids) and
We Blew it at Some Point
(Polar).
What skaters are you hyped on?
Brock Kono, Josh Ruubs, Remy Taveira, Mike Arnold, Andrew Wilson.
What skate shop and companies are hooking you up?
808 Skate, Vans, Polar Skate Co.
Dream sponsor?
Shitty Kids.
Thanks for letting me interrogate you a bit, any thanks you wanna give?
Yeah man, thank you so much Liam for shooting such rad photos and linking up this interview! Thanks Josh at 808 Skate, Johnny Layton at Vans, Lee Durban at Polar, and all my family and friends! Let’s keep shreddin’ in the ’19!

================================================================================

What you up to today? Working at the shop?
Yea, just got done with this Adidas prebook, of course I forgot about it. Just your typical skate shop shit.
Where you from?
Here, New Orleans. Born and raised.
How long has
Humidity
been around?
The shop’s been open since ’96, it changed owners in 2000. Then those owners brought it to the French Quarter where it’s at now.
How did you end up taking over the shop?
The old owners decided to move on, they ended up moving out of the city, so my mom and I just sat down just came up with everything to try and make it happen.
Did you change the shop much?
I mean I changed it a bunch, but at the same time it was always 100% skate, so I’m hyped on that. Never had any bullshit. Things have changed over the past six years, you know skate shops need to change to maintain as far as like aesthetics, but at the end of the day it’s always been pretty raw. As far as what the model is, what it’s there for, it’s always been the same.
How did you get the name Philly?
I don’t know, people just started calling me that. I had it since I was like 18, back when I used to smoke mad weed and shit. I never liked the name Phil.
You ever skate Philly?
No. In fact, I never wanna skate Philly now that they took Love out, so fuck it. Nah, I’m just joking. I wanna skate Philly real bad. Especially since KT’s there.
How’d you get hooked up with Scumco?
We did a collab and it turned out to be my favorite collab. You know scum? He’s just an asshole pretty much, he’s very stern and very straightforward, which is why I love him. I called him one night like, ‘Yo man, I had this idea I wanna make happen. When you do those veneer boards do you get to hand pick veneers piece by piece?’ And he’s like, ‘Well technically yeah,’ and I told him I always wanted to do a board and put a fortune in the middle ply so that when you focused it, you took it out like a fortune cookie. He said he didn’t know if that’d really work, and this and that. Then we were talking about some other shit for a minute and he just stopped me and said, ‘I’m gonna be honest, I’m either gonna steal your idea or we have to do it together.’ I was like, oh shit, I guess I don’t have a choice cause I don’t have Pennswood in my backyard, you know. I was just like damn you asshole. So we put a fortune in the middle ply.
And when did you actually get on the team?
Just through talking about all that, he was like, ‘So you ever thought about riding for Scumco?’ I was like, honestly yeah, but I back Politic and I’m not gonna just leave em, let me talk to em and see what he wants out of me. So I wrote Damon a text like, ‘Yo, I’m super down for Politic 110%. I’m down to work hard and do whatever I can to be a part of this if you think it’s worth it, just let me know cause Scumco hit me up to be fully on’. So a couple days went by and then I got a text saying ‘the team said they want to keep it the way it is,’ so I was like alright word, started riding for scum.
You sponsor? You got a team?
I don’t know, I don’t get into that shit. Either you’re down or you’re not. New Orleans is insanely small and no only am I the shop owner but I skate, so at the end of the day at 7 I’m like on the corner with all boys drinking beer. So I don’t want to be like, uh no you’re not on, you are on. It’s just dumb, so with me it’s just like man the whole city’s on. I give discounts when I can, we hide product around the city for kids, you know we try to give back as much as we can. Then there’s a few homies I’m like, ‘Hey, I’m gonna try to get you some rep flow’. There are homies all over, you know what I’m saying? The way I look at it, the homie Sean (Carabarin) in SF, he’s down. I always repost his shit, he’s like family and then even people like BA, that’s my dog, why wouldn’t he be on? Anyone who comes to New Orleans, basically you’re on, that’s the way I look at it. The only shop I ride for is Labor, so fuck it.
How that happen?
Just going to NY and kicking it with James. I don’t know, he’s just a really rad person. I personally never rock Humidity shit, and he’d always see me skating in Labor shirts, so it was just kinda funny, like a shop owner riding for another skate shop. Isn’t that skateboarding?
Favorite thing about New Orleans?
The people here. We have more culture, it’s unexplainable. You can ask anyone who comes here, you get stuck. Everybody’s chill, everybody’s friendly, you can be yourself here and nobody really gives a fuck. Out here people talk to their neighbors, they sit on the porch, you know…Skating is fun, obviously not as much to skate here, but you come here and kick it and enjoy the food, skate around, you can literally skate around with a 12 pack and the homies and you won’t get harassed unless you you’re obviously being a piece of shit, but it’s legal you know? Just come here on vacation with your board and have a good time.
What first got you into skating?
Lil Wayne, haha nah. I have a half brother and I think he had a board and when I’d go to my dad’s house every other week he had Jason Lee photos on the wall. He was all into
Mallrats
and shit. Then I had one of those skateboards with the handle, then it broke and that evolved into trying to skate. I fully got into skating in the 6th grade, we had this skatepark and my mom would drop me off there. That skatepark was ran by all the best skaters, and every time you would go there it would just be kids ripping. Even the dudes behind the counter would be the best dudes in the city, so at the time you would be like, ‘Oh shit, it’s so-and-so and he’s gripping my board!’ Then the A-Team came through and I saw Birdhouse and stuff like that. That’s what officially turned me into a skateboarder.
When was the last time you skated Parasite?
Haha I went there the other day for the Chili Bowl Jam. I threw this whole contest where I reached out a bunch of homies and organized this chili cook off/chili bowl jam. I did a couple 5050s. That day was sick. But other than that it’s been a minute. I raised money for that place, people say I hate it, I just personally don’t get into the politics of a skatepark, if that makes sense. I told the dudes that are running it, who are 100% amazing, I don’t care what y’all build. I’m gonna skate every day. Just build it. I donate money and I help raise raise money, I’ll do that all day, anything they need. I help with fundraisers and selling their boards and stuff like that, but when it comes to the skatepark I don’t care. Personally I don’t give a fuck about a bowl at a skatepark. I was like, let’s do something for the kids that actually skate the bowl, try to get some people to drive in from other parts of Louisiana. If you really want to know what I want, just put a slab and one marble ledge. I’d be there all day. I never had Love Park…I actually asked them when they were first starting, ‘Can we build Love? Straight up?’ That would be amazing.
How much money is a lot?
$100 is a lot of money, right? You could flip a hundred. You can buy shit with a $100 and make money real quick.
Any advice for someone who wants to open a skate shop one day?
Don’t. It’s so stupid. No one gives a fuck about you anymore. Industry doesn’t care, your brands don’t care, skateboarders don’t care. I honestly wouldn’t, it’s retarded. It’s the most backwards game. You start out with 20g’s and you end up with 10, trying to make 30. There’s so many skate shops just fucked up. Brands are just selling to pretty much anyone. The internet’s out there. Direct to consumer is just at an all time high…

================================================================================

Interview by Jawn Travolta
Photos by Dustin McWethy
Where are you from and where do you live now?
I’m from Japan and I live in Shizuoka, Japan.
You started skating young right? Do you remember learning most of your tricks?
I started skating when I was seven years old. First year, I always grinded halfpipe that was made by my father at my house.
When was your first time in the USA?
I went to L.A. for the first time when I was 13 years old. Then I got sponsored by Dream City Skateboards. They helped me a lot.
Did you get into skating from your dad?
My father was a professional surfer. I started skating because he sometimes skated halfpipe for surf practice and I wanted to try that.
Do you surf?
No, I love skateboard.
Who was your first sponsor? How did it happen?
S.L park. I was hyped to get first my first sponsor.
How often do you skate skateparks?
Depending on the day, I skate for three hours almost every day.
Were you excited to see skating in the Olympics in your home country in Japan?
Yeah, I was so surprised that Yuto landed crazy tricks and got gold medal.
Any last words / thanks?
My new solo part will be posted this year. Please check it.
どこの出身で、今はどこに住んでいますか?
私は日本出身で、日本の静岡に住んでいます。
あなたは幼い頃からスケートを始めましたよね？その頃学 んだ大体の トリックを覚えていますか?
私は7歳のときにスケートを始めました。 1年目はいつも父が作ったハーフパイプを家で磨いていました。
初めてアメリカに来たのはいつですか?
13歳の時、ロサンゼルスに初めて行きました。その後、Dream City Skateboard からスポンサーを受けることになりました。彼らは私をとても助けてくれました
。
スケートを始めたのはお父さんからですか？
私の父はプロサーファーでした。私がスケートを始めたのは、彼がサーフィンの練習で時々ハーフパイプを滑っていて、それをやってみたかったからです。
サーフィンをしますか？
いいえ、スケートボードが大好きです。
最初のスポンサーは誰でしたか？ど う や って そ うな り ま したか?？
SLパーク。初めてのスポンサー獲得に興奮しました。
どのくらいの頻度でスケートパークでスケートをしますか？
日にもよりますが、ほぼ毎日3時間スケートをしています。
母国の日本でオリンピックのスケートを見るのは興奮しましたか？
そう、ユウトがクレイジーなトリックを決めて金メダルを獲得したのにはとても驚きました。
最後に一言/感謝はありますか？
今年は新しいソロパートを投稿する予定です。是非チェックして下さい。

================================================================================

Photos and interview by Jonathan Becker
How are you doing? What did you do today?
Today I just went street skating with RB and Jack Fardel.
You saw RB today? Where’d you guys go skate?
We went to Midtown East basically. Brick nine area, basically right around there, like the hubba and this ride on grind thing.
What’s good with switch backside feeble grinds dude? Like where did that one come from? I’ve seen you throw that out there a few times and that’s not a standard trick.
I guess I just kind of like it because it’s kind of a more unique switch grind. A lot of people do switch 50-50s and switch 5-0s. I mean, switch back feeble is just not one that I see too often, but also it’s just not the hardest switch grind for me to do. It just makes more sense usually.
You skate a fair amount of contests, but you definitely still hold it down in the street. How do you keep a good balance between them?
I just skate street whenever I can and work on the stuff that I have to. Then when there are contests coming up, I’ll practice. If no one’s getting in the street though, I’ll definitely skate a park.
You’re a pretty well-rounded skater as well. Do you have a favorite obstacle that you enjoy more than others?
Lately I’ve been skating transition a lot, so I guess I would say a bowl. If I’m going to a skate park, maybe I will want to go to a skate park with a bowl.
You skate with Mark Suciu a lot. What’s the best part about skating with Suciu?
I haven’t skated with him too often recently. He’s been out of town a lot, but he’ll just surprise you. Anytime you skate with him, he’ll do some crazy shit. I’ve seen him switch back nose blunt a rail at the skate park. That was basically for fun, and he did a switch flip back lip down it.
So you do online school. How does that work for you? I’d assume it’s pretty helpful for you to be doing school online as opposed to in person.
Yeah, definitely because I have more time in the day to skate and because I didn’t like my teachers too often. I usually just don’t like teachers. I don’t like ‘em or I don’t get along with them. I feel like in school you waste a lot of time and then in the winter you get out at like three thirty and you can’t even skate for more than an hour because it gets dark. I like it because I just kind of wake up and eat and then I get it done and I have the whole rest of the day to skate.
Do you do it every day or do you let it go and then you’ll catch up?
I do it every weekday like it’s regular school. Sometimes I do wish I had someone I could ask directly though.
Do you ask your parents or something or are they kind of just like “Google it”.
I could Google it, but sometimes it is particular to a book or a math question. Something I can’t just search up and you have to read to know.
You went to Japan not too long ago. Was that just like a family trip or did you get some skating in?
I didn’t take my skateboard because I had just like fractured a bone in my hand and broken my thumbs.
Thumbs, plural? You broke both of them?
Yeah, I fractured both of my thumbs and one of my hands was in a cast, so I just didn’t bring my board when I went there. It was a family trip anyway.
Did you pick up Japanese at all?
Not really. I know a small bit but not enough get around in Japan.
Do you keep in touch with what’s coming out or do you kind of just skate and put out your own stuff?
I watch a lot of the new videos that come out. I don’t know, I feel like a lot of the stuff I see is on Instagram and if there’s a video that someone posted about, then I end up watching it on YouTube.
Are you most hyped on any specific projects that you’ve put out in the past or maybe something that you’re currently working?
I would definitely say the clips that I’m working on right now. I’m pretty hyped about those.
Do you have any shoutouts?
I guess shout out to everyone that hooks me up, you know. Shout out to Nike SB, Habitat, Thunder, Spitfire, Bones Bearings, Jessup, Red Bull, and Volcom.

================================================================================

What’s ya full name and where you from?
Simmeon Yisrael Perryman from Cincinnati, Ohio. Mt. Healthy, raised in Winton Terrace.
What was it like growing up in Cincinnati, do you remember seeing skateboarders around before you started skating?
Yeah I seen skateboarders around. I used to go to Ross skatepark all the time in Saint Bernard, but that’s it, I couldn’t go far.
Today is June 10th 2019, 12:53 in the afternoon. What you got on the agenda today?
I’m skating right now with the homies DQ and Deep fried Steve.
When was the last time you had some grippos potato chips?
Yesterday. Fire bag too.
Who’s in ya squad? Give a shout out to all ya peoples real quick.
Ravae, NEDXL, Gary Collins, Brennan, Scotty Z, Deep fried Steve.
You got any trips coming up?
Supposed to go on this Go Skate Day trip to Philly and DC with DC shoes. Their flying me out, my first time on a plane.
When you coming out to SF?
Hopefully before October or after my birthday on Halloween so I want to celebrate.
You bout to pop bottles or drink some apple juice?
Drink some Henny for the G’s.
What you doing for the youth in Cincinnati, you give stuff to the young ones?
Yeah, always. To the homies and the youth, I wanna start giving away mass used completes but it just takes time.
If skateboarding wasn’t in your life what do you think you would be doing
?
Being in the hood, chilling with the homies. Smoking, working a little side job, doing art, travelling. Skateboarding saved me for real.
If you could live anywhere in the world, where would it be?
New York, SF, or Portland. Gotta be by some type of nature and trees. Gives ya oxygen.
You ever wanted to start ya own brand or company?
No, never. Always wanted to sell vintage clothes and shit I like, but I don’t wanna have my own skate company.
Have you been filming for anything?
Not right now, just chilling and skating.
What’s a good hill route for heads to bomb if they come to Cincinnati
?
Mt. Adams. Vine st.
Chief Keef or G Herbo?
Chief Keef.
You think the earth flat or round?
Curly.
Word! About time to wrap this shit up, you got anything you want to say to everyone that is reading this?
Have fun spread love.

================================================================================

Where are you from?
I was born and raised in Long Island but I’ve been living in Baltimore for the past 10 years.
What’d you do today?
I had a field day at the school I work at so we were doin fun shit all day. My car is getting work on so I got a ride to the park after school. My brakes are fucked up and my rotors are fucked cuz I rode on them for too long.
Best part about working at a school?
The special Ed program at my school is really good, there’s just a lot of dedicated teachers at the school in general. I’m out by 2:30 everyday and I never have to work on the weekends haha.
How many times you break your wrist?
I think over 10. some of them were minor fractures so its probably not as many as I think. Ive had probably 11 or 12 wrist casts but I’ve probably only broken it 7 times.
Who got you into skating?
My cousin got me into skating, he only had one board so we were skating on it taking turns, then after that I just had to get one. Then I got the Christmas complete and built some ramps in my backyard
Worst day ever skating?
Probably the day I broke my leg at Ridge.
What happened?
I was just doing a trick on the hubba and I missed and jumped off of it, like every other try, but I extended my leg early, so when I came down my leg was completely straight and me knee just turned sideways.
That sounds horrible.
Yeah it was bad. I knew right away I wasn’t gonna be skating for a long time, which was the biggest bummer. I had to get a couple surgeries after that so it wasn’t fun.
Kickflip or heelflip?
Kickflip.
Why?
I don’t know. I don’t know why, kickflips though.
Ok, why mrfooshoo?
I just thought of it one day when I was sitting with Tony (Massey). Fo sho, and then it went from there.
What do you like most about skateboarding in Baltimore?
There’s honestly so much to skate in Baltimore. I’m constantly seeing pictures and footage of new spots. There’s probably also so much shit that hasn’t even been skated yet.
Best trip you’ve ever been on?
I think my trip to Pittsburgh last year was one of my favorite trips.
Who went?
I went with my brother, Jason Bundy, Nick Drecchio, and Matt Bullinger. We didn’t know really where anything was, we just kinda went to Pittsburgh. Jason had been there one time I think, but other than that none of us had ever been there. We just kinda found out where some shit was and looked for stuff. We met up with Dakota Welty for a little and he showed us some cool stuff too.
What are you doing tonight?
I’m probably gonna skate for a bit, get some food, try to watch the Orioles game somewhere, I don’t really have any set plans.
Beer?
Yeah definitely beer for sure.
What kind of beer?
Probably Natty Bo, maybe some Busch.
What’s going on with ridge?
I haven’t been there in a few days, the last time I was there, there were some dudes doing measurements and checking shit out. Word on the street is they’re making moves over there.
Any good Woodward stories?
Damn, there’s a lot. One time, there’s this bathroom of stalls connected to a cabin, and the cabins overlap the bathroom stalls, and I remember kids would be taking shits and there would be kids above them in their cabin, and they make a hole in the ceiling and pour juice onto kids taking shits. Kids do all type of weird shit there. They make a bunch of different combinations with blood and puke and shit.
Biggest pet peeve in skateboarding?
That’s a toughie. Kids that try too hard is pretty bad. Also headphones, take that shit out and join the session. If you got headphones in you aren’t in the sesh.
Wanna shout anyone out?
I wanna shout out my parents and my friends, and the whole Vu squad, Gary Smith, Skate Jawn, skateboarding, I guess that’s it.

================================================================================

Interview by Chris Nieratko
Photos by Elias Parise
Read the printed version of Tony’s interview below, or
watch the extended video interview/doc by clicking this link
55 Years old, Eh? You’re fucking old! Good god, and yet, you look so young. What’s your secret, Pearl cream?
Cold water, It retards the aging process.
I don’t think we can say that anymore
.
Wrong, that is a proper use of the word, look it up!
There are people that might not know what Coda is, so first off, what is it and why is it so special
?
Well, I first met Pat Smith about 20 years ago at lit lounge. He was forcibly removed by security for repeatedly lighting money on fire at the bar. And not for nothing, he’s still lighting money on fire, albeit soberly and for all the right reasons. Coda is his labor of love and I’m so lucky to be a part of it. It encompasses all of the best shit about skating. The traveling and searching and finding and building stuff, giving back to the community, the camaraderie and everyone constantly killing themselves having fun I really think this new Coda video “EP” captures the essence of why we all love skating so damn much!
A lot of people know you as this New York guy, but you’re not?
No, in fact, one of my favorite moments here is Steve R. calling me out on my stoop, “Fuckin’ Farmer, you’re so Cali! I can’t believe you live here!” I was born in Hollywood, but raised in the valley. You know, like THE VAL! so like, fast times at Ridgemont High, and Encino man, and like, Valley girl? Which of course means DogTown and Tony Alva and all the Z-Boys can fuck off! Don’t tell me you invented Skateboarding because you didn’t!
It started in Jersey
.
There you have it.
So what got you banned from Thrasher?
I don’t know and now I’ll never know unless Shmitty finally digs up the video where Jake explains it. But, it doesnt really matter. Being in the Top 5 Banned from the mag is my crowning achievement! The thing I always say about this is that Jake just didn’t like the cut of my jib, which is fair enough. So be it. Onwards.
Let’s talk about (another) least favorite, you are a fan of everyone around the globe’s least favorite Black Sabbath singer
Yes! Ronnie James Dio. God, I love him so much. You remember that night at the Tribeca Grand for the Big Brother Documentary when you an I got in that shouting match during the Q&A? That is another of my favorite skateboarding memories. Sorry, Tony Hawk, and don’t mind us, Spike Jonze, Chris and I are arguing about Dio vs. Ozzy, and I’m right and Chris is wrong!
And what’d I say? “Fuck Dio!”
Wrong again, my friend Heaven and Hell is one of the greatest Rock n Roll albums of all time. Period. Next question.
That’s where we differ, but where we align is…
Steven Patrick Francis Morrisey. Yes!
So, have you ever gay’d off with the Mozzer?
Fuck me, I wish! Sadly, the answer is no. But he was just in town and I managed to introduce him to my wife, who I do get to gay off with all the time.
Let’s wrap this up, How do you want to be remembered?
Great question. So I have burdened my wife with memorializing me via a world wide art installation consisting of tombstones being erected in all of my favorite places (Zuma, Beach, Zanesville, Liverpool, Lake Rosseau, etc.) Each bearing one of my numerous epitaphs. For example: You know what’s a good drink? Gin N Tonic.
That’s funny because I’m taking a sandblasting class next week to learn how to do lettering, so I could hook up with your wife on making these tombstones. Not “hook up” like, you know what I mean.
Dude, you definitely should try. I mean it’ll be up to her, of course. But if I’m dead, you should give her a call.
Thank you Farmer
.

================================================================================

What’s Pittsburgh like?
It’s home, I’ve lived here all my life and I don’t mind it at all. Most spots aren’t very blown out and there’s also a lot of spots that are hard to get more than one trick on. It’s also a super cheap city to live in. You’ll hear that from a lot of people that come here.
You travel a lot?
Occasionally, but I’ve only been to cities mainly in the northeast. Occasional trips to Cincinnati and other small Ohio cities. We got a lot of homies from Baltimore and I’ve been to New York a couple of times.
What do you think makes a place good for skating?
Cities with a lot of abandoned buildings, and housing seem to always be good. I like cutty spots, where no one gives a shit what you do there. I still don’t mind skating smooth downtown spots. I’m pretty open, but I definitely like to pick and choose spots that give off a certain look.
What’s a Yinzer?
Just a name given to Pittsburghers for using the word Yinz. The most defining yinzers usually have a strong accent and work a manual labor job. We’re all yinzers here in one way or another though.
If you could be on any TV game show what would it be?
Probably one of those ones where you have to make it through the obstacle course above water, and if you fuck up you get bodied and fall in. I was just watching one the other day but can’t recall the name.
Last skate trip you went on?
Last trip I was on was to Baltimore. It sucked. I fucked up my hip right before it. I did a split and stretched it out. I couldn’t even walk right at first. So I went and watched everyone skate, piled out and drank beers.
How often do you skate?
Lately it’s been everyday, now that winter is over. I don’t really like sitting around at my house, I gotta leave and do something or I’ll go crazy. Some days definitely work better than others, but it’s always good to at least try.
How often do you smoke?
Weed? I’ll smoke weed every now and then but it kind of weirds me out. I started smoking cigarettes kinda recently though.
Ever try an e-cig?
No but Greg (from the skateshop) has been on them.
Best thing you’ve heard about yourself from when you were blacked out?
I can’t recall too many specific ones, but last weekend I tried skating a mini ramp with a board on fire, and fell on the flat bottom covered in lighter fluid. Everyone was telling me I was on fire but I didn’t notice. I guess it went out pretty quick. I noticed my clothes were a little singed.
Best / worst job you’ve had?
Haven’t had too many official jobs. So far the best is probably the one I have now as a lot attendant. It’s pretty laid back. But I did work at a Toys R Us as a cashier as my first job ever, which was pretty embarrassing/terrible.
Favorite person to film with? / why?
Either my friend Eric Calfo who I’ve known forever or Rob Starr. I feel like it’s easier to film with someone like-minded, that has just as much fun filming as they would skating. I hate feeling like your forcing someone to do something they don’t want to.
Favorite food to grill?
I like it all. Ribs are always a good one, don’t get those too often. Can’t go wrong with steaks, but all the basics are good too.
Favorite microwavable food?
Leftovers.
What do you think about the increase in technology in our world?
It helps a lot but too much of anything is bad. Everyone’s so used to having it that we’ll all complain about it the second it’s slow or not working. I always think about how hard it would be to meet up with people to skate without cell phones.
Sponsors? Shout outs?
Nick and Ben at Scumco & Sons, Greg at One Up Skateshop, Drew Windon for hooking it up, Eric Calfo, Rob Starr & Dan Sotak for filming, Alex Papke, Nick Panza, & all the rest of the fuck yinz posse.

================================================================================

Who made the video?
Me, (Ryan Sabotage) and Penny (Brian Panebianco). I did the primary editing, Penny did a lot of the filming. A lot of other people submitted footage as well.
Whats the craziest thing you ever seen at love?
BP: I showed up a half hour after a lady bum stabbed another lady bum. Blood was everywhere. We filmed them arguing the day before. There were too many crazy things that I’ve seen there.
Are bums annoying?
RS: Sometimes. No, not at all. For the most part there pretty chill. Bums do there own thing. They don’t bother you too much. You see some pretty depressing shit at Love though. I mean, seriously some bummer shit. Can’t avoid seeing it even if you tried.
BP: Sometimes
Ever been caught at Love? What happened?
RS: Nope. I’ve never been caught at Love, been “kicked” outta Love for “suspicious activity” because I was filming cops. City hall I’ve always had bad luck with. Love’s easy, real barricaded. City Hall, I feel out “in the open” too much. Harder to run I think personally.
BP: I think the exact opposite. Love Park is so much harder to run from because the only thing you can do is run into the street, City Hall had a lot more stairs and it’s hard for bike cops to get up and down them fast if they’re on your tail. Also there is easy access to the underground.
Tell me a little about what’s in the video besides skating?
RS: It has a lot of flashing nostalgic NES gameplay in it, along with tv commercial/news shots I filmed while tripping on NyQuil. Bums being bums, graffiti writers writing on shit.
BP: The box smells like the inside of a new car. The older dvd boxes used to smell like beef jerky.
What’s it like being on the East Coast?
RS: Sucks, but I love it. It’s pretty amazing what I’ve seen done on some of the shittiest spots.
BP: Neither one of us has been out West, so I think we like the East so much because it’s all we know. I would personally love to see what the West Coast is all about, but I do know East Coast footage looks way sicker…in my opinion.
How does Philly compare to NYC for skating or in general?
RS: I love the NYC skate scene. People are nice, cops aren’t chasing you out of spots, it’s really sick. Shame I don’t go there more often. You feel safer skating NYC spots than you do skating Philly spots.
BP: NYC is huge, you can’t hit all the main spots in one day. Also, NYC has a bunch of good skate parks and plazas, Philly has nothing like that, yet.
How do you feel about skate parks?
RS: Ehh, I mean, they’re good except for them piss poor recycled plastic boxes and ramps assembled in shitty run down tennis courts.
How is Philly skating changing?
RS: It changes all the time. Love used to be good back in the day, Love died. 2008 was a big year for Philly skateboarding””City Hall was fully back and Love Park was poppin’ almost everyday. It was almost like the city actually realized it had better things to worry about. Now it’s back to being pretty strict, and I’ve recently seen undercovers lurkin’. Should be good in the winter, though.
BP: What he said.

================================================================================

Photographer interview by Jawn Dillinger.
Where are you from?
Bergen County, New Jersey. A super little town close to Hackensack and I grew up skating around there. After a little bit I started skating with some dudes over in Paterson until I got out of high school. Now I’m in New York. I go to school at Pace University. It’s right next to the Brooklyn Banks.
Did you get a chance to skate there when you first went?
By the time I got to school, it was closed off again. Back in 2017 people started going back there cause there was a hole in the fence, but then the cops were kicking people out. But I couldn’t really skate it, I just chilled there once or twice, but it was cool to just see everybody there. I think it was the second day that it was opened there was like 200 people. When I pulled up it was just a madhouse.
You were one of the people that started that petition, right?
Me and my homie Dave saw that nobody was doing anything about it, so we started a change.org petition and sent it to as many people as we could. We had another homie John who used to work over at Kayo, so he sent it to a bunch of people over at DGK. They reposted it and after that it just started snowballing and everybody got wind of it.
Have you heard any news on that recently?
At first it was just us and we didn’t really have any contacts in the city or anything. We ended up reaching out to Steve Rodriguez and he’s been talking to the city because he’s been through this before so he already had the connections. There’s been some community board meetings for district one. One of the members contacted us and was fully on board with trying to get it back. So Steve took on the majority of the project, but I’ve still been trying to keep up with it as much as possible.
Are you studying photography in school?
I’m going for a bachelors of fine arts degree. I thought I was going to be geared towards graphic design, because that’s what I was doing out of high school, but I ended up taking an intro to photo class and I thought it was going to be digital, but it ended up being film. So I got a camera started shooting and I just got hooked. I couldn’t stop doing it.
What do you like about black and white?
I think I look at black and white for a split second more than a color photo. But also I just like the way I read expressions in black and white photos. There’s nothing wrong with color photos, but I get distracted with colors. You have to think about shadows and highlights, then you have to move around and mess with the composition to make them work.
Have you always been developing all of your own photos?
Yeah in school they taught us developing and making prints . Once was done with the class,  kept shooting but didn’t have access to the darkroom it got to the point where I had like thirty rolls stacked up in my house and I was just like, damn, I need to start doing it at my parents’ house. Now I just do it at my apartment. t’s pretty simple. I just go in the kitchen, do everything there, and then just hang it up in the bathroom.
Who are some of your favorite photographers or what are some of your favorite types of photos?
Dude, Blabac shoots my favorite photos. Mike Blabac.
What is it about his photos?
He just shoots my favorite dudes and everything that he shoots is my favorite kind of skate stuff. Every time he has new prints or something I always cop as many prints as I can because it’s just so sick. I have a few on my wall right now. I have an Ave and Dill one from ’99 just skitching on some car. I have a Scott Johnston one from San Francisco. And then another one of Josh Kalis doing the bump to can tre flip at Love Park. That photo is super sick.
Did you ever go to Love Park?
The second to last day before it closed. Somehow I convinced my mom to take me and a homie. She had no idea what Love was or what it meant, and it was like -1 degrees that day. But as soon as we parked, six dudes hop out the car in front of us in just flannels. I’m like, “hear that mom, I’m telling you, it’s crazy. People are coming from all over.” And then she understood the severity of the situation.
You sent us some photos from North Carolina. You were skating with the 5301 crew, what’s up with them?
Yeah, the 5301 crew. Those are the homies. I met Jermaine up here like two years ago then he went back to North Carolina and we stayed in contact.I was like “yo, if you’re down I’d like to pull up and get some photos of you guys.” And he was like, “hell yeah, pull up.” I was down there for a week in January and met all the homies and got a bunch of photos and chilled down there. It’s super sick. I liked Charlotte a lot. They got some awesome stuff going down there.
Anything you’re working on, or got coming up?
Honestly, the only thing that I think about is just picking up a camera and going outside and shooting. That sounds cliche, but that’s honestly the truth. Just getting outside and shooting photos, especially over here on the East Coast, especially during the winter. You never know what’s going on, it could be raining for a week, it could be snowing for a wekk, I could be busy with work, but I just try to go out and shoot as much as possible. I try to develop and scan as fast as possible and just get things out.

================================================================================

How old are you and where are you from?
18, Lynchburg, VA.
How long have you been skating?
Seven years.
What was the hot video when you first started skating?
I watched
That’s Life
and
Baker 3
like everyday, they’re still the best, and some free promo videos that I got in product tosses and stuff. Then
Fully Flared
came out, that was hot for a while.
Did you have any of the older homies take you under their wing and show you how it’s done?
Yeah, this dude Bill would take me and my brother to YDG often when I first started skating. It really helped with our skating. You know, just getting out of town. We really appreciated it. I don’t see much of him now though, I think he got married and has a few kids or something.
Do you try to help the younger homies coming up?
Yeah, I’ll film and make little edits for them. It’s cool seeing them get really stoked on tricks and stuff. I try to get them out on the streets with me as much as possible too.
So what’s up with Lynchburg? Good skate scene, spots, shop, park?
Really small skate scene, it’s like five of us total. We are all real close so it’s tight. Spots around here are really gnarly, rough ground and cracks, but we love it. There’s a small skate shop downtown that I ride for called Scene3, it’s actually more of a bike repair shop now. Turns out five skaters can’t solely support a skate shop…haha. He will put on contests and stuff to try to bring in skaters though and that’s always a good time. There’s a park downtown that has been there since I started skating, and recently the University I live next to made a small indoor skatepark. Along with the new park out in Bedford which is 20 minutes away, so as far as parks go we are pretty set.
Weather is starting to finally break, you hyped for Spring and Summer? Any road trips planned?
I’m super stoked! No trips planned right now, but I know there will be. I’m looking forward to them for sure!
Ever considered moving out West or California? Seems like the thing to do for a lot of skaters trying to come up?
Oh yeah, my uncle lives in San Diego so I’m sure we will have plenty of trips out there. But the more time I spend in Lynchburg the more I fall in love with it. The scenery, and how peaceful everything and everybody is, it would e hard to break away from.
What do you hope to accomplish in 2013?
Skate a lot!
Any last words/shoutouts?
Thanks to Luke McKaye for all his effort! So rad!

================================================================================

Interview by Larry Davis.
It’s been a busy week for you hasn’t it? What’s it like having so much on your plate?
It’s been a good time! I’ve been in Sweden for about two weeks for the opening of our new vintage & skate shop called Rapsfield. It’s been busy, but I’ve also made time for my family and friends from back home since I just moved to NYC and don’t get to see them all too often anymore. I’ve missed them for sure. I definitely have more responsibilities nowadays than what I used to have just a year ago. Sometimes it can feel a bit overwhelming since I’m just getting used to this new role, but I am happy about how things somehow worked out. It feels pretty surreal sometimes. Skateboarding has been my main focus for a long time now and because of it, I got to help create new projects and brands which hopefully can create a positive change for other people as well. Having the opportunity to do what you love for a living with your friends is the biggest win regardless, so I’m super grateful for everything that’s been happening lately.
What’s up with Rapsfield?
It’s a dream that me and my friend Anton have been talking about for a few years now. Last year we did a pop up shop for a week in Malmo and it was a fun project so we decided to make the permanent shop happen this year. It’s a work in progress, but I’m surprised how well everything has worked out so far.
Even though you’re still young, do you feel a responsibility to look after the scene in Malmo?
Yeah, I feel like that should be important for everyone, but different people have different ways and different resources to do so. For example, some people might have an ability to talk to others and help them make the right decisions in life, while others have different methods to make a positive impact in their community.
Did you have health problems growing up?
I had a serious heart surgery on my aortic valve as a newborn. There was a chance I wasn’t going to make it, but thankfully the surgeon and everyone else involved did a very good job. I was supposed to have two more surgeries as I got older but I ended up only having that one. Having problems with your health can be such an eye opening, humbling experience. You realize that being healthy is one of the most important factors in order to live a happy life. Mental health is also very important, and something I think everyone should make time for.
Wild. Happy you’re here! What was your favorite subject besides skating at Bryggeriet?
Film.
Do you think you’d ever go back to school for a degree or anything?
I hope not. I have dyslexia and although I sometimes envy the knowledge and professionalism some of the people who have graduated university possess, I feel like the learning system is not really made for people like me. I am more of a visual learner and it’s very hard and depressing for me to sit down and read, memorize and study several hours a day.
Tell me about Lurpiv. Who’s on the team?
Lurpiv is mine and John Magnusson’s truck brand which we launched in August this year. As soon as John asked me if I wanted to create a truck with him I was on board. Trucks have always fascinated me and I feel like a new truck brand could be something others would be hyped on as well. In the beginning it was just me on the team, but now Filip Almqvist is on, and we’ve been talking to Kader as well. A lot of people have been very interested in being involved with the brand, and skating the trucks, which makes me super stoked. It’s been hard to keep up with the demand, especially in these covid times, but we’re starting to get more control over the situation slowly, Hopefully we can keep making trucks for a long time. I’ve been skating mine now for three months and I don’t want to change them for something else.
So I didn’t know you had dyslexia and I was going to ask if you’ve read any good books lately…
I’ve been reading various articles and listening to a lot of podcasts on race.
Seeing White
on Spotify is one.
Is that because you’re moving to America? Did you have exposure to race theory and racism in Sweden?
I learned most of what I know today about race and racism from my girlfriend Brianna. She is black and also an expert on the subject. She’s currently finishing up her debut novel In Our Shoes which is about the struggles black millennial women are facing in this world today. Having seen how this world treats Brianna has really raised my awareness to a completely new level. No one can minimize how big racism is in this world to me any more, but a few years ago I was just as blind as them. I have always thought of myself as a progressive and compassionate person but I can see now that like so many other white people. I have had unconscious biases and a terrible understanding of how easy I have it. Learning about yourself and your own history is something I recommend everyone to do. A lot of us white people just like to think of ourselves as progressive as a way to make us feel better. Not voting for the sexist, racist, delusional psychopath  with a father that was a part of the KKK in the US election is not enough. Change is not going to happen without white people actually making an anti-racist effort. Especially when most of the white people who claim not to be racist still accept friends and family members who are. Especially when people still hold unconscious biases towards people of color and uphold structures of our society which makes life and success so much harder for people of color, every day.
Well said. Did you read magazines growing up?
Yeah, I used to read Thrasher all the time, wondering if I would one day be in there. Since I made it in there, my next goal was to make it into Skate Jawn…
So is it true you weren’t down with Polar at first?
When I was 13 Pontus asked me if I wanted to skate for his new brand. I said yes but a year later when he started up Polar, I had already had a board sponsor. The team manager was promising me a spot next to Josef Scott and Jonas Skroder who I really admire. At the time I was into some weird clothing styles, and this brand was about to release this weird jacket that I really wanted too. I called up Pontus and he seemed confused, “Oh really? Well if that’s really what you want… perhaps you’ll change your mind.” I did end up changing my mind only a couple of weeks after when I was out skating with David Strensom. Pontus was there and he asked me again. I said yes that time because David is like a big brother to me and I realized that I wanted to be skating and doing things with the people I love doing it with. That was ten years ago.
What’s it been like to watch the company grow into this really big international brand?
It’s been crazy. I’m super proud of having been a part of the process. The best part of it is that everyone is so close. We’re all really good friends and have a lot of history together.
Did you ever wear tight pants? What’s the next big fashion trend?
Yes. Sharks.
You’ve got a new pro shoe coming out, is there anything special about the design?
It has sharks on it.
Tell me about this Olympic documentary you’ve been involved in.
The Olympics is a part of it, but it’s more so a documentary about my life up until now. Last year the director gave me a call and asked me if I was interested. I almost said no, I was worried that it would feel pretentious. I ended up telling him that if I was going to do it, it would have to be with Johnathan Lomar, who skates, and who I already knew and had filmed with a little bit. We’re pretty much done filming and the project is supposed to be ready in December. I feel a bit nervous about it coming out because I’m not the most extroverted or talkative person. Sometimes I’ve felt uncomfortable but it makes me feel better trusting the people behind the camera and behind the scenes.
Do you prefer Sweden or the states at this point?
I always imagined myself living in different places and although I’ve traveled a lot since a young age, I’ve spent the majority of my life living in Malmo, Sweden. I feel like I want to try something else now and the US is good because it has so many different options in the same country. The best and the worst all in one place. Sweden is a bit more average, normal, safer. For good and for worse.
Aight so how do you skate the way you do?
Thank you. I think it’s a product of the terrain I grew up skating mixed with the influence that the people I’ve looked up to have had on me.
Anything you do to warm up?
I usually ride around doing some mellow skating for a while.
Has anything ever been too scary for you to skate?
The loop unfortunately.
Want to say anything to the readers?
It’s important to make time for being thankful for what you got. If you feel like what you have is not enough, it’s okay to work for whatever change you want to make in your life. Just make sure you do it for the right reasons and in a way where on your path, you bring up others with you. And when you do have more, make sure you also use your knowledge and resources to give back.

================================================================================

How has staying in New York been during these weird times?
It’s unfortunate to not be able to interact so much with people, but outside of that my day to day has not changed very much. I work across the street at Bronze and spend a lot of time at home working on music. I’ve taken a short break from skating but I’m gonna start again soon.
When and how did you start making your own music? What instruments do you mainly use?
I started playing piano in 2010 or 2011. I practiced a lot, like three hours a day probably. I had little formal training so mostly just learned from trial and error. Had my time been spent more strategically I would be much more advanced at piano but I was always attracted to a less conventional approach. I never wanted to know exactly what I was doing. I think around 2013 or 2014 I started messing around with recording. Early on I made some music for some of my buddy Kurt Havens’ skate videos. Just some really crude keyboard and synth stuff. In 2015 my buddy Rich Quintero gave me an opportunity to make music for some short Converse commercials. As soon as that happened a lightbulb went off in my head that I could actually make money doing this. From that time on I’ve invested all my money and most of my time to learning more and acquiring gear. I regularly have work making music for brands in and out of skateboarding, but I have my eye on film scoring. I mostly use synths but recently have been learning guitar and bass. I have good software with orchestral instruments also.
You’ve got a pretty catchy name. Did you ever consider using a different name for your music?
Up until this point I haven’t had any desire to do so but recently I’ve been messing with sampling and more beat oriented sort of stuff so might come up with an alter ego for that.
What artists have inspired you to make the music you’re creating now?
I would say top 5: Philip Glass, Yo La Tengo, The Velvet Underground, Brian Eno, Aphex Twin.
If you could choose someone to skate to one of your songs, who would it be and which song? Maybe someone can make a remix part.
Honestly that’s not something I think about. I’m grateful if someone wants to use my music for a skate video, but I only hope my music doesn’t suck and supports the edit. I really don’t care who it is.
You’ve been posting some great stuff on Soundcloud recently. Do you have plans for an album or any other projects going on?
My main focus lately has been making music for the Bronze X DC edit for our shoe with them and an album eventually.
How did the new DC Bronze shoe collaboration come to life?
In the last few years Shanahan became pretty heavily involved with Bronze so that’s how that conversation started. It’s something we wouldn’t have expected to do a few years ago but I think it came out great and assuming I don’t blow it on music, the video should be rad.
What’s the first place you want to skate when you get back out on your board?
Flushing. If the fountain’s not on.
Lastly, any advice you want to give people to help stay motivated and creative?
Learn to meditate. When you meditate you simultaneously address your mind and clear your mind. Addressing your mind helps you clarify your goals, and understand your motivations.  Clearing your mind allows for concepts, music, art, whatever to come out.  If you are an aspiring artist, chances are you’ve experienced endless amounts of art. This all exists somewhere in your subconscious. Try to pull from that and piece things together. But mostly just make stuff a lot, and don’t worry too much about how good it is. If you like it, put it out there. And don’t worry too much about reception. Chances are your early stuff will not be good, but that’s fine. Don’t have high expectations in terms of reception.  Maybe some people are naturally good at art but mostly you need to put in a lot of work if you want it to be good.

================================================================================

Interview by Sean Bendon.
You rep Buffalo pretty hard. What’s up with the City of Good Neighbors?
Yeah I definitely love Buffalo. I spent a lot of time growing up there. The first years of my life skating were there. But there comes a time when everyone has to do something different, and with school being done I had nothing really tying me there.
When did you move to NYC?
November of 2020.
Did your brother move out here with you?
Nah he’s been out here for a couple of years.
He’s also in a lot of the videos you’ve been a part of. Like a Justin clip plays and then a Nate clip plays right after.
Yeah growing up with Nate and having him around to skate with was amazing. Like best friend/brother type shit where he’s always there. Literally roommates at a young age. We moved out of our parents’ place and went our separate ways, but reconnecting here is amazing and just having that similar interest with a brother makes you grow tighter.
Did you guys start skating at the same time?
It was damn near the same time. I got a board and my dad took me to the park and then I told Nate about it and he wanted to get into it. And then year after year we had each other to bounce ideas of of – woah did you see that dog hop the fence!?
Oh shit! We’re doing this interview next to a dog park. Shoutout Irving Square Park. What’s the significance of Xtreme Wheels?
Xtreme Wheels indoor skatepark is like the first place I ever skated. It’s where we were forced to grow up skating because in the winter in Buffalo you’re not skating outside. Slim chances. So we would just go there in the winter and try and get as much shit as we could.
Would you say Buffalo skaters are a bit gnarlier because they have to skate in such shit conditions?
I would say so. From November to March you’re not going to skate outside. The lake effect snow shit is no joke. But in the summer there’s no place I’d rather be.
You told me the other night that Buffalo summers are one of Upstate New York’s best kept secrets.
For sure, all of upstate summer is. But definitely Buffalo. We’ll leave it at that.
You’ve put out quite a few parts in the last few years. How have you managed to finagle that around Buffalo winters and full time school?
We’re just out skating man. There’s people in my crew that just keep bouncing ideas off everyone and before you know it you’ve got a clip. It just goes to show, if there’s a will there’s a way.
Who do you film with mostly?
The last year has mostly been with Tristan Mershon, but when I was back in Buffalo I would film with my boy Andrew Maholsic. RIP Sunday Skateshop. He made
A Stones Throw
and
Bouquet
.
Were there certain Buffalo skaters you looked up to growing up?
Dan Plunkett and Jake Donnelly.
Blow the whistle.
Jake’s a beast, watch out for the left hand.
Fuck, I gotta get to Buffalo. Get some wings and hit a Bill’s game.
Don’t forget about the beef on weck. That’s the real underrated food.
Beef on weck?
It’s a roast beef sandwich on a kummelweck roll. Salt and caraway seeds on the bun. It’s amazing.
When was the first time you saw a
Skate Jawn
?
I originally heard of
Skate Jawn
through Sunday Skateshop. They used to get them there and I was a kid hanging in the shop and I would see it. I was hyped because it was black and white and real raw and I could tell it was made by skaters.
Most memorable Jawn moment?
Tyler Stier getting the cover of Issue #52 was really special for me. He’s my homie from Buffalo and in that same issue there was a Moms Skateshop article. That one really stands out to me.
How’d you start getting hooked up by ScumCo?
Ty asked me who I was skating for last summer. It seemed fitting, and the way Ty asked me about it was very welcoming. I’ve heard of Nick since 2012. It’s cool to get the thumbs up from those guys. It means a lot to me.
I heard you broke your hand two days before a ScumCo trip to Puerto Rico. What’s the story behind that?
We were driving out to Coney Island and found this rail, it wasn’t even the spot we were going to skate. It had this weird skinny curved run up to it, but for some reason I was like “Yo I can do it.” In the back of my head I’m like damn maybe I shouldn’t. I had just booked my tickets the day before.
It was your first ScumCo trip right?
Yeah! The rail was rusty and I thought that it was gonna stick, but when I put my board on for the boardslide I just slipped out. There were stairs on the other side and the way I fell was like having a rug yanked out from under me. I put my hand down and it just got crunched in the corner. As soon as I stood up I knew something was wrong. I tried to make a fist and I couldn’t do it at all.
Sounds terrible.
I was pretty grossed out and bummed that I did that. My boy Tom drove me to the hospital and they re-broke my hand and put me in a temporary cast. I fell asleep with my fucking hand in the air and the next day they reset it. The following day was the flight to Puerto Rico and I was mad nervous to go with a fucked up hand. I told them to double wrap my cast.
How was the trip?
The trip was great. We got clips. Medallas were flowing. Alcohol doesn’t affect you the same way there.
How were you rolling up?
The homies! The first few days they were tying my shoes for me cause I couldn’t use my hand. I took care of myself the best I could but the homies looked out and made sure I was comfortable. I took my cast in the ocean too.
Aren’t you not suppose to do that? What if a wave hits?
Exactly what you think happened totally happened. But I had the cast held up and a spliff in the other hand.
What have you been up to since you got back? You got your cast off and shit?
I went to Tampa with the ScumCo homies, hit DC on the way, ran into the Skate Jawn homies in Miami after that. The ceviche at their spot was amazing. got to skate with KT and Ty and Downey.
I’m really stoked to see what the future holds for you. Shoutouts?
Everyone in Buffalo, Moms Skateshop, Nick at ScumCo, Ty Beall, Halsey Street homies, the boys at Tenant, you know Skate Jawn. Noah, Marcus. I love what you guys are doing. Thank you!
Oh yeah, how do you say your last name?
(Jeh- Ho- Vee- Ack).

================================================================================

Interview by Jawn F K.
What have you been up to today?
I went to the skatepark in Long Beach and chilled on the beach for a little bit. Now I’m just walking my dog around the block. Not too much else, playing my guitar a little bit and hanging out.
Where are you from?
I’m from Tinton Falls, New Jersey.
What do you like about New Jersey? What keeps you there?
Definitely my family, my friends, and definitely all the new skate spots and stuff I’ve been skating recently in the past couple years.
What’s a new spot you’ve been hyped on?
All the places that I’ve gotten to travel to with Fred and our crew. I never realized how much shit we had to skate in New Jersey because I live in Monmouth County. There isn’t too much going on down here but when you get up north there are some pretty rad spots.
When did you meet Freddy?
About two years ago now. I started working at this set design company. I started working there September of 2019 and he kind of took me under his wing and brought me out on some sessions and we’ve just been skating all over since.
Did you think it was crazy to meet him for the first time?
Yeah sure, I didn’t even realize all those dudes like Jordan Gesko, Andrew McLaughlin, a lot of the  dudes who built the Newark DIY’s worked there. I didn’t realize how many skaters worked there or even what the job was. I jad just been painting houses for years and I heard about a painting job so I showed up and it’s this badass crew of dudes who all skate or do art. Some good people to work with.
What’s up with Sweet Lou and the River Rats?
Sweet Lou and The River Rats is a group of my close friends who have all always played together. We would go to bars where they had open mics, so every week we go and just make up a name. One week we came up with Sweet Lou and The River Rats and just stuck with it. It’s just a bunch of the homies, Chris, Gabe, Loui, and Billy. We just like to jam and play some blues, some covers like Grateful Dead, Wide Spread Panic, Allman Brothers and stuff, and every now and then we make up a couple of our own tunes.
Do any of the other guys skate?
Yeah, Chris Anderson rides for 5Boro. Billy is the drummer and he is a really sick skater. Loui “Sweet Lou” is also a great skater, best slash grinds and tre flips in the game. Gabe surfs, he is our keyboard player and plays bass at the same time. The best part is we haven’t had to seek out a bass player or a guitar player or drummer. It all just happened naturally.
I know you’re by the beach, do you surf much or have you ever?
I surf a little bit, like when it’s too hot to skate, but not too much. I try to stick to skateboarding for the most part. I was out there yesterday kinda getting my ass kicked, it was a lil bigger than I’m used to.
Have you been filming much?
Yeah, I’ve been filming with Paul Gar for the past two years since I met those guys. We’re working on a part. Fred’s also working on a part that he will probably have leftover parts from it all, several if I had to guess. We have been going on a bunch of trips skating all over New Jersey, a little bit in New York, but definitely a lot of New Jersy stuff. All these spots I didn’t know existed. Hopefully, it comes out in the next few months or so. We’ve just been trying to keep stacking.
Do you
ever get behind the camera? Do you film much yourself?
Actually, since high school I’ve been filming a video of all my homies I grew up skating with that I have never put out. I have it all edited. I’m just so fried when it comes to computers and technology. It’s called
The Sgnarf Video
. It’s like almost an hour long, but it’s all this high school footage and stuff. It’s actually pretty funny and it’s a bunch of my good friends, maybe it will come out one day.
Do you guys skate a lot of abandoned shit in Jersey?
Definitely. A lot of abandoned places and old spots that haven’t been skated in a decade that Fred will take us to and I’ll recognize from an old Habitat video or something. We will end up landscaping the whole place and re-concreting shit, putting down bondo. Putting in all this work at these old spots, it’s sick. Like rasta ditch, that half pipe in PA that Brian had an ad on, we brought a chainsaw and fucking chopped a tree out of it. There was like two thousand pounds of rocks in it and we were just going at it, shoveling rocks off forever.
You also sell mushrooms, right?
I was working at a farmer’s market like once a week selling mushrooms in the morning. Since work got busy I stopped.
Do you believe in functional mushrooms or magic mushrooms or the power of mushrooms?
Yeah, I believe in magic ones. I think probably not for everybody but I think some people can get some benefits from them. As far as the other mushrooms go, I haven’t really tried many of them. I know I was working at that company but I didn’t really get to eat too many on a regular basis. It’s something I want to get more into like Chaga and Reishi. It seems like there is something going on there that could help some people out.
If you’re on the road, what’s your favorite fast food, or go-to gas station snack?
I’ve been into these protein cookies, I forget what the heck they’re called but they have a guy screaming on the front. I’ll eat those if I miss a meal and we are skating. Get some protein and eat a cookie at the same time. That’s my go to.
Heard you did some skateboard art. Do you do a lot of drawing or art projects like that?
It was something I wanted to do for a long time, but when lockdown happened I finally started messing around with it. Pretty much I’m cutting broken boards into random shapes like mushrooms or faces, the Grateful Dead symbol, whatever really and just painting them accordingly. My dad is a duck carver so I’ve always had a wood workshop in the garage that I’ve always wanted to mess with. I just use his jigsaw and cut boards into random shapes and paint them.
What would you say to someone to try to get them to come to Jersey that’s never been and doesn’t want to go?
I’d say we got a lot going on for a small state. I mean we are right in the middle of New York City and Philadelphia and then you got the Poconos to your west. I’d say come by, there’s a lot of possibilities in a small place.

================================================================================

What are you up to today Lance?
I’m at work. I’m a director of a photo studio, I shoot product and shoes all day long. It’s a Monday, so just gearing up for the week.
So where’d you grow up? How was it?
I grew up in the D.C. / Maryland / Virginia Metro area. It was the best place in the fucking world. Especially if you’re on the east coast. It had a really small skate scene, best punk/hardcore scene on the planet. Four seasons… There was ditches, backyard ramps, Lansdowne skatepark in Baltimore which was only like an hour away. It was awesome, it was a great place to grow up.
And this is like mid 80’s?
Yeah, I got my first board Christmas ’78 but I thought it was a toy you know, I was just a kid. So I didn’t really get into skating until like ‘82 when I was 12 and my mom moved to Virginia Beach. I’d go visit her every summer and there was a big scene down there, so that’s when I really got hooked. Plus I got hooked listening to punk then, so those two things in the 80’s kinda went hand in hand.
I read you filmed your first sponsor me part on a cassette tape?
Pixel vision! Yeah Fisher Price came out with this camera that you loaded a cassette tape into and somehow it recorded video onto it. It was only black and white and looked like really shitty, grainy super 8. But my buddy had gotten one as a kid and no one had a vhs camera yet, so yeah, I filmed my sponsor tape on that. I was riding for Intensity Skates, a shop in Maryland, and the owner Mike Agnew sent it to a couple companies because I was trying to get sponsored to go to an E.S.A. contest in Ocean City, Maryland. So I ended up getting hooked up by Skull, and they sent me a Josh Marlow board. Josh was a pro back then that was from Ocean City, he was rad. A vert skater, but rad haha. So I skate and can’t even remember what I got, but everyone was there. It was me, Sheffey, Jeremy Henderson, the entire Shut team, Kepper, Barker, Felix, Dune… Everybody was there! And then shortly after that contest I got hooked up by Dogtown, and then they hooked me up with Indy and I got hooked up with Vans, the whole deal…
Alright, let’s try to do a rapid fire timeline of sponsored skater in Maryland to founding editor of Slap Magazine.
Okay. Sponsored by those guys I mentioned, graduated High School… Everyone’s dream on the east coast is to go to California where it’s bright and sunny, so I got in the car with my buddy and drove across the country to Tijuana, made our way up the coast, and landed in SF. I had a friend, Tim Lane, who actually started Slap with me, who lived there, so we crashed at his house and I enrolled in SF State for film. I skated SF, met all the EMB guys and made friends with everybody. There wasn’t a lot of transplants at that time either, everyone was from the Bay. One day I was skating Fort Mason with Greg Carrol, Jovontae, and Rick Ibaseta and there were these two dudes just sitting in a car watching us. It was Mofo, the photo editor for Thrasher, and this other photographer Scott Starr. I started talking to them and they asked if I wanted to shoot photos with them. I mean fuck dude, that was the dream, getting a photo in Thrasher. We drove around the next day, shot some photos and I mentioned I was still looking for a job. Mofo calls a few months later and says the guy in the darkroom’s leaving, do you want the job? Of course I do. So I got the job in the darkroom at Thrasher, still going to school full time and now I’m working full time, taking the bus and skating everywhere. Then a year and half later at the beginning of ’92 they said they wanted to start a new magazine and they already had a name for it. They said “Slap” like the sound your tail makes when you do a lien to tail on a ramp. So in my mind I’m like, this is ’92 man, it’s all about street skating what the fuck are you doing naming it after a vert trick? Don’t get me wrong I love skating vert, but it just wasn’t happening then. So Fausto Vitello, the owner of Thrasher, hands me a credit card and says “Here you go, go make a magazine, get out.”
Did you make any zines before you moved out there?
Oh of course! I mean we grew up on Transworld and Thrasher of course. Then Poweredge came through, and that was fucking amazing. But I mean in D.C. and in the punk scene especially everyone made zines! There was KDS (Killer Dork Session) that was a big zine, my friend Josh Russel made Spud. One of my best friends Peter (Raygrave?))) made Worm, and then my friend Emile and I made Roadrash. I still have a copy of Roadrash, and a t-shirt somewhere, which is crazy to look back at. So yeah of course we made zines but it was all xerox shit, we didn’t know what we were doing, so for them to say “make a magazine” and I’m just starting film school… I had no idea what that even meant! Absolutely zero clue. So they shut me in a little room, showed me a layout board and how to cut and paste photos, text, and everything else with an exacto knife and a hot wax machine. The hot wax was so you could lay stuff down, but if you needed to you could peel it and move it around easily.
How did storyboarding work?
So basically you have a storyboard that’s a two page spread and you’d lay things out on it within a grid, kind of like a page at a time. But you’d have to realize that a “spread” wasn’t really a spread like you’d see because the way that magazines are made “four up.” Meaning you have four pages in a row, and four pages in a row on top of that, on a big sheet of paper. Then the back of that is printed four sheets, and four pages on top of that. So then you fold it once, you fold it again, and again, and again, and then you trim the top and that’s where you have pages. They don’t all really line up and this might not make sense, but if you wanted to layout page 2, right next to it would actually be page 32 because that’s just how it was going to be folded and printed and cut. So that took awhile to figure out. Kevin Thatcher, the editor at the time before Phelps, he helped me a little, but everyone at Thrasher already had a grudge against us. We were the young kids skating Embarcadero every day, we looked at them like they were old men. I mean the first issue of Slap there’s a huge article about EMB in it, where they’re still doing articles about Hosoi skating vert! It just felt so old and they hated us. Thrasher was upstairs and we were in the basement. You know, I got along with them and I shot a ton of stuff for Thrasher, I still loved Thrasher, but they just hated us.
Is High Speed like the mafia in the way they operate?
Ha, I mean I’d love to think that and it sounds cool, but no. It was run by Fausto and he was a hard-ass who liked to yell and scream and he was a fucking nutcase but in the absolute best way possible. It was really more a family business than a mafia, and a lot less corporate than Transworld or Skateboarder or any of those other magazines. We yelled at each other, we told each other to fuck off, it was awesome!
Did Slap have a decent budget or were you guys scraping by the whole time?
We were all in our mid twenties having no idea what we’re doing so it’s not like they ever said “here’s your budget” Thrasher just paid for what we did. But big picture, what we did back then didn’t cost a lot of money. Probably the most expensive part was flights to Australia, or Europe or whatever, but none of it cost a lot of money. And I never went overboard with spending a bunch of money, which I regret, I probably should’ve.
So when you were the darkroom guy, were you processing personal rolls from the photographers too? Ever see anything you shouldn’t have?
I mean you’re talking about me, Bryce Kanights, Mofo, Chris Ortiz, Joel Cherry, of course there’s personal stuff on there. Photos of their family or photos of their friends or whatever, but all those things were kind of skate related anyways. Even though I was the youngest at the time, Bryce was still only in his mid twenties, so we’re all young dudes shooting dumb shit. Did people have photos of their girlfriends naked on film? Yeah of course, it was great! I had it the best cause I could shoot whatever I wanted and then develop and print everything and no one had to see any of it.
You started in ’92, and how long were you running Slap?
I resigned as editor at the end of ’99 so I could move to LA, and handed it over to Mark Whitely. But I stayed Editor at Large until the end of 2009, so I still shot full time for them, still laid out a bunch of articles and wrote a ton. Then somewhere around 2005 I also became the TM and advertising director at Independent, so I’m doing both the mag and Indy and then somewhere in 2009 the economy tanked and they let me go from Slap and Indy all at once.
Alright, Indy and Slap are both done. What’d you end up doing?
Well after that I was freelancing, doing a bunch of shit. I worked on a documentary film as a still photographer for a couple years. I think it got nominated for an Oscar actually, it was called “Casting By.” Then somehow I got in touch with Neiratko and he hooked me up and got me a job at
espn.com
as their skateboard editor for the X Games, which was just… That was tough. My soul just took a hit man. Like do I really want to work for this corporation that’s just so the opposite of what I am and what I believe in? But I needed a job you know? I had a kid! So I did it thinking maybe I could add a little bit of authenticity to it, but working in that crazy, corporate, journalistic world… All they really wanted was fluff pieces on Bob Burnquist and Tom Schaar. It was tough.
So how long before you called it quits with them?
Uh, I was there for close to two years but I didn’t call it quits, someone from HR came in one day and just wiped out the entire xgames department, which was like 35 people in one day getting fired. They tried to expand way beyond their means and the higher ups were just like cut it. I guess they’re still around but I mean, who cares.
So what are your thoughts on skateboarders being millionaires, and little kids starting to skateboard in order to become millionaires?
Well skateboarders as millionaires I think is the greatest thing in the world. Good for them. You’re gonna tell me all these other people in the world can make that money but skaters can’t? We’re the gnarliest fucking people in the world! Could you imagine making millions and being able to build a ramp in the backyard of the house you own? That’s the fucking dream man! And if kids get into skateboarding thinking of money, that’s fine. Because as soon as they really start becoming a skater, they’re doing it because they love it. No matter what. You just get hooked, and money’s great but even if they lost everything they’d still skate, because you can’t stop. I’ve battled that one a lot in my head and I’ve come to grips with the whole Bam/Rob Dyrdek phenomenon. Are they kinda corny when they’re doing their shows? Yes. But if they got more kids into skating and even one percent of those kids stuck with it, then that’s awesome.
Totally. So what are you thoughts on the print industry in skateboarding? Are magazines still important?
I don’t know, ask Transworld right? Or you tell me! Are magazines important? As long as someone thinks so, then they are. But, when I was a kid all we got to see were skate mags, and some video. That’s all we knew about skaters and their style, what they wore and all that. Now, it’s 24/7 everything on your phone or your computer. When I was a kid, if I could have seen all that, it would have been the greatest thing in the world. I would want to see skating all day long so I can’t hate on technology, even though print mags are going out because of it. You know this, it’s expensive to make magazines, it’s hard to get advertisers, they don’t pay a lot. You gotta pay your designers, your photographers, your editors, pay for shipping, pay for the printer… That’s a lot of money to pay! It’s really hard to do! So credit to you guys. I mean it takes a lot. Transworld was still a major magazine, one of the two big skateboard magazines, and if they couldn’t afford to get advertisers to pay enough to make a magazine, what does that tell you? I think a lot of publications got caught up in the old guard of how magazines used to be run. Having a huge budget, offices, and staff and all that. The only way you can still put something on paper is cutting down on your overhead and really not earning anything yourself. And if you want the best photographers, with the best skaters, going on the raddest trips, someone’s gonna have to pay. And if it’s not the companies then the magazine’s gotta pay, and that’s a big expense. It’s really tough, I feel for print mags, I love all magazines and not just skateboarding ones either. Even normal magazines are becoming really expensive, just to buy one it’s like $10! If you think about it, Thrasher’s got a monopoly now. If they wanted to, they could say we can pay photographers even less now because everyone wants their photos printed through us and they don’t have any other options now.
Well that’s where Skate Jawn comes in. We’re free!
There you go! They could even go as far as telling companies they won’t cover any of their riders unless the companies pay for it. It’s a monopoly, whether good or bad. I mean I’m from the school of Thrasher, so part of me is like “fuck yeah, Transworld’s gone. We won!”
So what about favorites from when you were putting together Slap? Any trips or articles that stand out, or just dudes you loved to travel and shoot with? What about location? Best and worst skate trips.
Well I mean Barcelona was the best before it got blown out. New York in the 90’s when you could still skate through the street and you were kinda invisible. SF was kind of the same way, when it was still just a dirty playground. But I mean skating over the westside highway with Harold, Keenan, Hamilton, Pang, all those guys I mean that was just the best of times. Early Supreme, when it really was just a skateshop. New York was just the best in the 90’s. I mean I’m sure it still is in its own way. Brazil is fun, but I was always sketched out going there. I’d be fine if I never went back. Europe is Europe… I did a whole month in Spain just me and Drehobl, we rented a car and just looped the whole country. No videographer, just me and him getting drunk, we ran with the bulls, it was just fucking awesome. But honestly the best trip I ever went on was Quito, Ecuador and skated the park there. Then went to Lima, Peru and went to Machu Pichu, then up to Caracas and Venezuela. The crew was, if I can remember it: Me, Luke Ogden, Phelps, Hewitt, Jesse Paez, Archimedes, Mic-e Reyes, Julien, Karma, Greg and Mike Carrol, Salman, Cardiel, Sam Smyth, Rick Ibaseta, and Choppy. I might be forgetting someone but I think that’s it. Oh Drehobl and Richard Kirby! It was nineteen of us or something insane. Choppy was smoking on the flight there, I think Karma and Julien got in a fight on the plane, Phelps pissed his pants next to some old lady and couldn’t wake up. I had to pull him off the plane and he fell face first off the curb right as we got out of the airport. I think Karma smashed the window of a bank or something in Ecuador and got chased with a chain, hurt his ankle and had to fly home the next day. Oh Joey Tershay was there too! It was madness, and it was fucking awesome. I mean, all those guys were right in the middle of “Hell Ride” and then it was me and all the other guys and we were like, “well then we’re Hella Ride!” So it became this whole thing.
You always remember the photo you didn’t take. Got one?
Millions. I can tell you my number one right now. It was either the Rodney King riots or the Gulf War riots, cause they were right around the same time. There was like 100,000 people in SF protesting on Market st. So I didn’t go to work cause I just wanted to witness it and shoot photos. We were going up Van Ness and there was all these SWAT cops everywhere and then all these people sat down in a circle and started a bonfire that had an American flag in it that said “Fuck Bush” on the flag. I’m looking at this and I had ran out of film so as I’m loading film in, the part of the flag that said “Fuck Bush” just rises up into the sky. I just stared at it and thought “Holy shit, there’s my Pulitzer Prize.”
Brutal. Do you think anybody has as good of a categorical knowledge of skateboard photography of you?
Of course. I would say Burnett is a super skate nerd and probably knows way more than I do now. I mean Lance Mountain has an excellent fucking memory, he remembers everything. Who shot what, when, where, how. Phelps, I don’t know if most people know, but he’s got a photographic memory.
Oh he’s a historian for sure.
You could say “oh what’s on page 52 of the September ’77 Skateboarder?” And he could tell you who it is, what they’re doing, who shot it, what the caption says. I mean that is mind boggling. For whatever people think about Jake, whether love him or hate him, he is probably the truest skateboarder there is. He lives and breathes it, and that’s all he lives and breathes. That is phenomenal. He is one of a kind no doubt. It never fails that you can always fall back on Jake to be a true skater, like it or not. Great stories or horror stories.
It’s true man, I remember that hill bomb contest like it was yesterday still.
Oh man that was brutal. But I’ve seen him get hit by cabs before, he got in a gnarly accident in Australia with Monk where they flipped a car in the middle of fucking nowhere. Maybe Dustin Dollin or Danny Way’s had more surgeries than Jake, but man he’s been through the ringer and he’s still alive and kicking so you gotta give it to him man. It’s pretty fucking awesome.
Do you have any advice for us?
The one thing I learned is just to stick with it. I know that sounds really cliche, but I never cared who came or who went, I was gonna outlast them. Even though I didn’t, I kept my course. Do what you think is rad, and don’t give a fuck what anybody else thinks. Because if we tell everybody that “this is rad, and not that.” You’re convincing everybody that’s true. And there used to be so much of that, Like with Thrasher in the 90’s trying to convince everybody that vert was still cool. So we started Slap with the intention of giving the opposite outlook, and to push people in a different direction. It doesn’t always work, but you gotta try and you gotta stick to your guns instead of just following fucking Street League. You tell people what you think is rad and that’s all that matters.
*Editors note: Jake Phelps passed away a few days after this conversation. RIP to a true inspiration.

================================================================================

What’s your name, where are you from, and how old are you?
My name is Shakir Bullock. I’m from Norfolk, VA. I’m 25 years old and only getting a little more wiser.
I’ve always wondered this, does your name mean something?
My first name means thankful in Arabic and my last means young bull.
What do you do to support yourself?
I work a full time job at a restaurant and work at Cardinal skate shop. I’m working on some plans for something else, but at the time being these are the things keeping me afloat.
Since you work at a skateshop, do you think the olympics will positively impact skate shops?
I think the olympics can be a positive aspect due to shops getting business, but we are going to see a lot of cooperations and big names trying to get a piece of it as well. Reaping the money, influence, and so called image skateboarding has to offer. We all know the real companies and shops so hopefully we as skaters will know what will keep our culture alive. Then again history repeats itself, so if all fails we know who will also stay true to their roots.
Do you consider Virginia the south or the east coast? And what makes Virginia unique when it comes to its skate culture?
I consider Virginia the southeast. Down and dirty, yet classy.
We got huckers, rail dancers, tech, and flow. It’s the best of both worlds. We as a community just have to work for it and be a little more creative.
If you could pick 3 skaters you know that people should be more familiar with who would they be?
Oh easy!!!! Kolby Hayes, Hunter Matthews, and
Lorenzo Johnson
. I love the way those guys skate. I personally have a crush on them all, low key. Just kidding.
What’s your favorite skate video growing up, and favorite video part now?
Favorite video is Volcom
Let’s Live
, especially
Shane Cross’s part
. Now, I would like to say just any video I watch. To be honest, there’s so much to learn and so much to see.

================================================================================

Back in about 1997 or 1998 I went to Woodward Camp. I ended up with an instructor from the South. His name was Jeremiah Babb. Miah probably has no memory of this, but I do cuz he ripped and he was my goddamn instructor at skate camp. I was a dumbass kid trying to learn how to skate a ramp feeling like a jackass while Miah cruised around kickflipping pyramids and doing switch crooked grinds. Back then he skated for a little ATL company called Raped-Inc, which was run by the current art director of Pusher Wheels, Shawn Beeks. Cut to 2003 and I moved to Athens, GA to live with my friend Jeff Benson to skate and try to attend college at UGA. Almost every weekend we would ride down to Atlanta to skate. Jeff was good buddies with Miah so he was usually our tour guide. Miah was always super good at skating and always hyped to show people around his city. At the time I think he was on Consolidated and he was one of the skaters that put ATL on the map along with guys like Stormy Pruett and a whole host of other names. He wanted to do the skate thing from the East, and not move out to California. I had a lot of respect for that. Anyway, Miah is an OG from the South who truly loves skating and he’s killed it for decades, so he was the obvious choice when it came to adding another pro to the Pusher crew. He has kids now, a house, a normal job, and blah blah blah, but the dude still skates all the time with the creativity, style and power he has always had. Read the following interview between Shawn Beeks and Miah and you’ll get an inside point of view from one of the South’s prodigal sons of shredding. Enjoy
-Pusher Rob
First off, congratulations on the birth of your second son, and will you be that dad who refuses to sponsor his own child?
Thanks man. I’ve got two of them now. It’s pretty rad with two boys. I don’t think I’ll need to sponsor my kids, but I think being a dad is THE sponsor. I gotta buy all the shit and get em from A to B at certain times. But I’m definitely not doing the skate coach/dad thing. Skating isn’t a sport to me. I’ll pass skateboarding on and they can go from there. I’ll take em where they want to go, or get em into contests, if they want to do them. But more than likely if they’re taking their runs, I’ll probably be skating the mini.
Most fathers have a hiding place to take a break from being an adult. Where do you hide, and what dod you do when no one’s looking?
A hiding place? I got a wife and an iPhone. I am easily found by whoever needs to find me. I go skating, do Bender/carpentry shit, and drink beer when the kids go to bed.
Have you had much time to skate, and where do you usually find yourself?
Liz is cool with me going out any nights I want to. It just depends on what’s been going on all day with either work or the family. But man, I’m old. If I go skate heavy one day, all day. I’m beat for the next few. I normally skate my ramp, Brook Run Park or “the parking garage down the street with the curbs and shit.”
What’s been your impression of the changing Atlanta scene over the past 10 years?
The scene is rad man. There’s so many damn skaters down here now. Everyone migrates in and out for skating. The vibe’s always good. It’s just dudes who are here to ride and live. The parks are sick! A lot of big walls and downtown is still a go, spots everywhere. The scene is still run by the crusty, broke, skate-rats that are out there sweating it out for fun.
Did you ever picture yourself riding a wheel with your name on it, that wasn’t a Seaboard Ave practical joke? (Seaboard Ave. being a classic ATL skate house from years past)
I halfway expected it to have some sort of buck tooth, big nosed, hillbilly, snorting oxycontins with a rebel flag behind him, that’s if we were going back to the Seaboard skate house days of friendship.
Is there a reason behind shaping your own decks?
I got a Ben Schroeder Pocket Pistols board one time, and just loved it. They’re more fun to ride. It feels rad doing it yourself. Stepping out of line. Working with tools and creating something.
A lot of older guys have collections of skate things from years past, like old company T’s, crazy sticker collections from the 90’s, boards up on the living room wall, old mags, old vids, etc. Have you started your own Sanford & Son skate museum, and if so, what are some of your prized possessions?
Oh yeah, I almost hoard when it comes to that stuff. Consolidated tees, Satori tees, A Tim Brauch contest tee, mass stickers, A board from my first Consolidated box that came with a post it note that said “make it count”. My friend Jay Buck’s memorial board. The first free board I ever got. Flyers from demos. Just so much. When I was getting to travel and shit, I knew that time was limited. I tried to absorb as much as I could. Especially with Consolidated. They were my favorite brand as a kid. But, the vids are the raddest. VHS Sub Zero vid was a big part of my teenage years.
Underachievers
, The Sheep video. The Consolidated videos.
Speaking of videos, you’ve had parts in almost all the major ones coming out of Atlanta. Are there any ones in particular that stand out to you?
The two Ruin shop videos were really rad to film. The friendships that were built in those vids and the growing process of everyone was insane. Matt Creasy made the first one when he was only 16. All of it; unreal at the time. But man, I think everyone down here knows The Dirty South vid in 1999 that Dearth did jump started the whole scene. It showed how much was going on in the city and how good skaters in Atlanta were. It branded the city. It motivated everyone. It was a D.I.Y vid of people you had never heard of made by someone you had never heard of. It wasn’t common practice back then to do that.
I’ve noticed a change in the packaging of Bender Hardware. What was the motivation behind that?
Cheaper, cleaner looking, easier production schedules, Not wanting to deal with some “ghost” man in China for the boxes. Plus the boxes were super expensive. It drove the costs up to the shops. The bolts were hard to paint consistently by hand. I couldn’t make paint rigs big enough to be able to paint more than 40 sets in a session.
What are your future plans for the company?
It’s doing well now. Almost 2 years in. I don’t have the art of running a business down to a science yet, but I’m learning. The dudes on the team are killing it and people seem to be supporting it. I want to just keep it going. I don’t know man”¦it’s hard to look into the future. I had never heard of
Skate Jawn
this time last year, so it’s hard to predict. Hell, my dad used to say “You gotta have the want to boy, or you ain’t gonna get shit in this world.” I have always lived by those words.
Is there anyone you would like to thank? It’s not an award show, so you can say as much as you like.
Liz, Mom and Dad, Chris Head, Shawn Beeks, Stormy Pruett, my kids, Ruin shop, Pusher Wheels, LowCard dudes, LowAtl dudes, Morico, Deck-Specks, The Seaboard Avenue crew, Skateboarding, Skate Jawn, East Coast, Shitty weather, old bones, lost flip tricks, new ramps, new concrete pits, marble ground, painted curbs, worn out ledges, walls, rippers, shredders, The Master’s Division of bowl contests, Atlanta. Everyone who buys, supports, or skates for Bender Hardware.

================================================================================

Tell me about your current living situation, how do you like it compared to other places you have lived in LA?
I have been living in Highland Park for about four years with my girlfriend and our foster dog. I like it. The majority of the spots around me are gnarly so it’s motivating to step it up if I want to stay local but still get clips. Compared to Echo Park, Highland Park is a bit less hipstery but it’s definitely on its way. Jordan Maxham lives right around the corner from us and these guys in our building are fun. They have a cool band called Machine Kit.
What is your favorite part about living in Highland Park?
Living four blocks away from Garvanza skatepark. On a good day I’ll be back in time to catch the last hour of daylight there, skating and hanging with all the G-park locs like Rafael, Chopak, Fos, Eric, and other rad locals that are there on a daily basis. The bowl is the best part, pool coping, awkward transition, all that.
Who was the first skateboarder to have a big influence on you?
Collin Hale for sure. He is the most well-rounded and unpredictable skater to come out of Vermont, Marshall Heath and Dave Abair too. All those guys really set the bar for my friends and me when we first started skating. They were a real group of friends going street skating for the love of it. It didn’t take long to realize that’s exactly what I wanted to do as well.
Tell me a bit about your artwork. I know you used to draw in high school, how did you get into computer animated design and painting?
I started painting to pass the time when I wasn’t skating, either at night or while injured. I enjoy the process and being able to come back to something multiple times. If I film a trick I’m psyched on, I’ll continue that good feeling and draw or paint something that night. And if I don’t get a trick, I won’t want to be creative, it’s crazy. I learned how to animate through a class I took. I’m glad I did it because I now know how to use Adobe Animate, which has exposed me to a bunch of new tools. Half the battle is just getting the right idea, it can be really time consuming. Once I have a rough idea, ideally in a storyboard layout like a comic strip, it’s just making a bunch of drawings that slightly overlap. It takes a lot of patience just like skating.
Did you ever work in a coffee shop and not know how to make coffee?
Yeah when I first moved to LA I got a job at Casbah Cafe in Silverlake, sadly now closed, and I told them I knew how to make coffee drinks which I actually had no experience doing until I caught on pretty quick.
What is the greatest part about rehabbing an animal?
I don’t know what it’s like to rehab an animal but Lindsey and I have been working with a dog trainer because our foster dog has some behavioral stuff and I am learning a lot. We’ll see a ton of progress one day and then he’ll do something that kinda sets it back, it’s hard because we put a lot of effort into the training, but we love him no matter what.
What was your favorite project or part you put together?
For sure Cut and Dry with you in 2013. It was definitely the most meaningful because I know everyone involved. The one person I didn’t know that well at the time was Auby, but now he’s an epic vert skater and that was his last street part so that’s pretty cool to look back on. I enjoyed filming that part because we were able to visit a lot of the east coast spots, from Vermont to New York to Philly and back, and getting to film it with my friend, you, was a real treat because you know a lot about me and would constantly make helpful trick suggestions and bring positive vibes. I was also hyped to have a last trick that wasn’t just a carcass toss, but a ledge to manual trick that was still difficult and very rewarding to ride away from. Don’t get me wrong, I love a good sail, but sometimes it’s the low impact technical stuff that gets me motivated to push myself further and think outside the box.
Favorite trip of all time and why?
London. I just went there for the first time recently and it was so much better than I could have imagined. It was supposed to rain the whole time and everyone kept telling me how unpredictable the weather is there, but it ended up being perfect for all eight days. I was there originally to skate a Street League open qualifier but didn’t end up making the cut, so I ran into Clive Dixon at the park and met his friend Mark Burns who ended up letting me tag along on their street missions for the following week and showed us a great time. We wound up skating a variety of cool spots and met a bunch of friendly locals. We even got to skate South Bank, which has been on my spot bucket list for quite some time now, ever since Justin Brock informed me that it’s the oldest spot still skatable in Europe. If I could choose anywhere to go back to, it would be London, or Mexico City.
Tell me about the best party of all time? What happened?
Ty Evans hit me up and then we traveled the world. That whole year and a half was like a party. In a literal sense it was probably my 21st birthday when you ordered a couple strippers to the Silent House and we invited the neighborhood gang up to partake and some of them got kicked out for being too rowdy and they slashed the stripper’s tires.
What are you working on now? What is your mindset when working on a project?
Still finishing this Independent part, trying to mix in more transition skating. Also skating with New Balance homies as much as I can. I like surrounding myself with well rounded skaters because it keeps things interesting, both trick selection and spots.
What would you tell yourself five years ago?
To not give up and don’t slow down. Also you’re skating won’t always speak for itself, you have to speak up too.
What would you tell yourself in five years?
To keep going and eat healthy because I’m sure my metabolism won’t be as generous based on my Ben & Jerry’s intake, and to take care of myself, and to go camping more.

================================================================================

How was growing up in Akron, Ohio and at what age did you start skating?
It was pretty sick. There wasn’t much of a skate scene or a skateshop so that was kinda neat. I started skating when I was 13.
So Akron never had a local shop? Are there any pros from there?
Ah I don’t think there’s any…well Kevin Terpening is from Akron. I don’t think any of the Paff brothers ever went pro or anything. There used to be one shop called Megapolis, but they closed in 2011.
Did growing up near an indoor park grow your scene or help your skating?
It didn’t do much for the scene. They were kind of a religious skatepark too, so the first few years were weird but it definitely helped my skating out. I’d go with my friends like every day.
How many years have you been skating?
I think like 9 years.
What made you want to come to Pittsburgh?
A lot of things. I’ve always come to Pittsburgh since I was younger and when I turned 18 and decided to move out, one of the first places I thought of was Pittsburgh. So a year later when Brandon, the co-owner of the shop, offered to help move me out it just seemed like a sign, so I went with it.
What do you like about living in Pittsburgh?
I like all the spots out here, that’s one of the main things. Some of them are pretty crusty, but they all look really sick and I like how some of them are more unique than in other areas.
What are your favorite cities you’ve been to?
So far San Francisco is really sick. Crazy spots out there. Pittsburgh, I love Akron for sure, and New York definitely. You can do so much out there.
You work, skate, pay rent, and are a pretty mature dude for your age. How do you pull it all off?
Barely…I just always try to keep skating as the main thing I do and a priority. I get jobs that I know I’ll still be able to skate with, and have a flexible schedule to do trips and stuff. I just keep skating at the forefront of everything, that’s what helps me stay in line.
What’s your favorite spot you’ve been to?
I don’t think I can pick one bro, there’s so many and every spot is so unique.
Do you contest bro?
Barely. Just as much as I have to. Now that I have a few more sponsors I try to skate them and stuff, but I’m pretty much there to street skate after the contest.
What’s your favorite Adidas shoe to skate?
I like the city cup a lot right now, but it just varies.
What’re your plans for 2019? Got any parts coming out or trips planned?
I’m coming in real hot. I had a part drop in December to close the year out, and I got two parts in the works for 2019. Trying to get some more photos and go on some trips too.
What do you think having a skateshop sponsor mean to you?
Dude, what? What kind of question is that?
Do you think it’s changed over time?
I think it depends. Like in California having a shop sponsor is almost being pro because of how it is out there. Out here I think we have a lot more core or raw skateboarding shops and so I respect that a lot. That’s one of the main reasons I moved out here too, I always looked up to OneUp and traveled out here and to become a part of it meant a lot to me.

================================================================================

What’d you do today?
I was down in Lancaster then we went to York skatepark. I was with Rob Reed, Nick Tyrrell, a couple other guys from out there.
Didn’t they get more built?
Yea they just built a second phase there like half a year ago, six months ago. Theres lights there now,
so its like a whole new place.
Where you from?
I live in Stroudsburg PA, in the Poconos basically.
But where you from?
I’m from Queens NY that’s where I was born. I moved from there when I was like 10 years old then came to PA.
Fav part of LV?
The people. the whole scene there is really welcoming, real cool, just a good group of people down there. if you go you know your gonna have fun. Andy Po set up a really good thing down there with the plaza and now theres 2 shops.
Did growing up in Queens affect you?
Not really, I was there till about 4th grade I remember a lot of shit, but I’d say living in PA definitely formed me a lot more, as a person.
Longest you’ve gone without skating?
Probably when I was like 18 I hurt my knee, partially tore up some tendons and I had to do rehab for like 6 months, which really isn’t that long.I’m pretty lucky.
Any rituals for setting up a new board?
I usually do solid grip tape, no lines or anything. I pop the shields off my bearings, and I have the bottom washer off of my trucks. Those are the only things I really do to keep it almost the same.
Most trouble you’ve been in for skating?
I’ve never been arrested, I’ve got a good amount of tickets. I’d say the most trouble I’ve got in was skating this 9 stair hand rail at an elementary school in my town. Me and my other friend got caught there just trying to Bondo the crack. We really weren’t even skating at the time and we both get like $300 tickets.
5 skaters from LV?
Jay Sigafous, Dustin Martinez, Gary Hilegas, Luke Koch, Andy Vasquez, Nik Stain. That’s 6. It’s so hard.
What’s some good places to go around you to skate?
We just went on a Connecticut trip pretty recently, there’s a bunch of really good skateparks out there and they’re all pretty close, located with an hour of each other. That was a fun trip. I go down to Lancaster, and to shorties, I really don’t go too far.
When was the last time you caught a fish?
Probably when I was like22. I’m 28 now. with my dad on a boat, I caught a stripped bass. It was pretty cool actually.
Were you bummed when we interviewed everyone in the J3T video except you? my bad for that.
Haha not really, I really don’t skate as much as those guys. they’re definitely doing a lot more things then I am. I didn’t take it personally. I’m just psyched those dudes are getting recognition cause they’re from where I’m from.
What was up with that video?
It was more or less Matt and those 3 dudes go out a lot, and go around different cities. We always would meet up at the skate park in our town, in Stroudsburg, and I’d go around with those dudes when I could and try to do something.
Favorite part of the plaza?
The vert wall and the escalator is really fun. Vert wall and has like a escalator ledge going down the side its like a quarter pipe. that parts fun. The clamshell actually is probably the best thing there. That things really good.
Dream pet?
I really just want like a German shepherd would be sick. I wanna get a dog one day, but not right now.
Favorite smell?
Citrusy, uh oranges. Oranges are pretty tight. that’s a good smell.
You went camping last weekend?
Yea, went camping out in Williamsport, PA. There’s a really good skatepark, well its really fun, out in
Williamsport and then there’s a cool little skatepark you can camp at.
What would your dream skatepark be like?
Willamantic skatepark out in CT is one of my favorite parks Ive ever skated. I think that park is basically as good as it gets. its one of those parks too if its super crowded with a lot of people you can still just go around it really doesn’t affect you at all.
Longest you’ve tried a trick?
I’ve gone back after not doing it one day, come back another. I probably wouldn’t try something longer than an hour or something. cause an hour is pretty long, that’s like forever when your trying a trick. I’ve  definitely gone back two or 3 times to do something but not in a while. that was like filming with Matt basically.
Favorite law to break?
Drinking in public is kinda fun. That’s a harmless crime.
Biggest difference between men and women?
That’s like a comment that’s gonna get me in trouble. Just our genitalia is a pretty big difference.
Any summer trips planned?
Thinking about going to to Ashville, skate with Ivan, JT is down there now. my friend Matt is down there.
How tall are you?
6’6
Last time you were in Philly.
Maybe like 3 weeks ago, we skated 9th and poplar, and I checked out Vs new shop he got with Sloan. I’m trying to go back down next weekend.
Sick, hit me up.

================================================================================

How ya fuckin doin’?
Couldn’t be at a better time or place in this world we live? HOW YOU FUCKING DOIN EARTH  PEOPLE!?
Where are you from?
Saugerties, NY. Two hours north of the city. Perfectly placed at the base of the Catskill mountains and right on the Hudson River.
You had an interesting childhood, your parents were in the circus. What was that like? Were you involved much?
They had met in NYC through performing arts. When they moved upstate they started the Runaway Circus with my older brother. I was born into the family circus but I can’t remember much because the circus stopped when I was three. One act I can recall is riding a tricycle around on stage with my head tipped back and a ping pong ball balancing on my nose. The crowd was always so impressed as I dismount my ride, ever so carefully, not to lose balance of the ball. I finish the act with ping pong ball still on my nose! The crowd goes wild!! Hahaha.
Who is the most famous person you’ve ever eaten dinner with?
I would say Phelippe Petit, The man who walked a wire across the World Trade Center. Graciously I have spent many dinners with him and his amazing wife Kathy O’ Donnell.
You know how to ride a lot of different things, so how did it all lead up to you getting into skateboarding?
When I was seven I saw this older kid as recess running and sliding the garden boxes at school with soap shoes. So I asked to get a pair. They sold them at TSX in the Kingston mall. The guys in there were real skaters and thought soap shoes were like scooters at that time. They really thought I should be skating. So when I left with my new shoe box the homies packed it full with skate stickers and told me I needed to get a skateboard. So I soaped long enough until I was really ready for the new obsession. skateboarding.
How did you get into skatepark construction?
My family and friends had a skate and bike park committee all through my middle and high school career. When I graduated in 2009 the skatepark in my hometown finally came to fruition and there was no way I wasn’t going to be stalking them working everyday. At the end of the job some of the crew had to leave so they needed more labor and I was there to help and learn.
What would you tell somebody who wants to get into the trade?
The road is a wild ride! Make sure you’re okay with living in a broom closet. Getting screamed at should never be taken personally. Never stop learning.
Your dad, I’ll let everyone know is one of the most epic/inspiring people I’ve ever met.  Can you talk about him a little bit?
Ever since I was a little kid, when I’m with my dad I am his apprentice. He has more ideas for projects than he will be able to do in his life time. Traveling the last 22 years to Easter Island he has finally established that he is going to spend the rest of his life there, doing art and making the island a better place. He has been doing art his whole life and I know he will keep on that path until he moves on.
We both got our dogs in out of the ordinary ways. Most people who have met you, have probably met the girls. How did you get Lex and Heyla?
Heyla and I met out in Oregon at Windells camp. She was a foster rescue from Texas and just moved to camp where I was living. She was looking for a new home and I was looking for a new homie. Lex was found on the side of the highway out on the Blackfeet reservation in Montana. She was inside the track of a gigantic excavator about 200 feet off the road. I pulled over and gave a whistle and she came running. Sloan called her Little Ex before she even got in the van. Heyla approved and the rest is history.
Gnarliest fire you started and put out?
Jobsite down in Mississippi. We had a huge burning man fire with all the scrap lumber from the job. Next day there was a pile of ashes the size of a small car. I picked up the pile with a machine and dropped it into this big ditch that ran for miles. The whole ditch was covered in Kudzu, a super invasive plant that grows for miles. After I dropped the ashes I was cleaning up around the site, and I noticed that there was smoke coming from the ditch. Since we had no water on site I used the machine to drive into the flames with the bucket in the air and smash it down and drive out. I did that action a few times with a couple piles of dirt and we were all good.
Advice for the youth?
Never stop learning! Always keep a positive attitude! If you’re trying something and you fall, and you don’t get back up and try it again, you fell for no reason! Never grow up! Skate Army!
Do you think public art is important? Why?
The more the merrier! Getting the locals and outsiders involved in community art projects brings new energy to the area. Keeping people out and about conversing with strangers and appreciating creativity is good.
What is your first skate memory?
The day I got my first board. My mom had taken me to TSX skateshop to pick out my board and from there I went to gymnastics practice. I had been practicing that for 5 years and was totally obsessed. When I went inside to practice there was a whole new mind set. SKATE!!! I was so excited to show my friends after practice, from that day on I never went back to Gymnastics.
What is your favorite dog food?
From trying almost all the different dog specific foods, Pupparoni beef sticks. It’s the closest thing to what most humans eat as a Slim Jim. Way better then dry chunks, and gravy train.
How do you keep your PMA (aka Preston Maigetter Attitude aka Positive Mental Attitude) levels so high?
No one wants to be around people who are in a bad mood. So I do my very best to make sure everyone I am with is as stoked as they can be and in return, I am as stoked as I can be. Pretty easy living.
What is your favorite kind of shampoo?
The Original Mane ‘n Tale shampoo & conditioner. You can buy it at your local Walmart in the pet supply department. It works great for the dogs and even better for me.
What is the favorite place you’ve ever slept?
In the bushes out front of the W hotel in San Francisco, where we had gotten kicked out of the top floor suite at four in morning for wrestling.
What’s the gnarliest thing you have ever rolled in on barefoot?
Louisville, Kentucky.
Favorite skatepark builder/concrete influence?
Tavita Scanlan, his experience mixed with creativity make anything possible. He is also the best dad I have ever met other then my own.
Shout outs/thank yous?
5th pocket skateparks, icecoastkillsshit, backyard legends, Maggie’s Krooked Cafe, Digger crew, Thrash Addiction, FSBS, Pidgeon, Vans shoes, Crocks, Ford, Reed, Makita, Snap-On, Quickcrete, Patagonia, Stance, Kraft. Thank you my family and friends you have made my time on earth like my dreams could have never imagined.

================================================================================

Interview by Sean Bendon. Photos by Daniel Stelly.
GPOTZ! How’s it going man?
Bendo! It’s going good. Just got off work. I’m fried. I was fucking around with avocados all day and brought home a bunch of sick fruit and shit.
You get free food at your job?
Yeah 100%. They feed me all day. I work at Bi-Rite on Divisadero.
This ain’t the first grocery store you’ve worked at right?
No, I worked at Whole Foods for five years. That shit sucked. I had some Temecula boys working with me sometimes but I didn’t want to work for Amazon. It’s the one on Haight. Classic Waller on the lunch break rips.
Why did you move to SF?
It wasn’t even really my decision. I had just gotten fired from my job and my buddy was like “We’re moving into this garage in San Francisco” and two days later I moved in. It’s been seven years. I wanted to live my life without a vehicle, I don’t like cars and gasoline. Metal death traps. Call me crazy but I think you experience the city and people way better outside of a car.
What’s up with that little Waller edit of you that’s got dubstep in it?
You know what’s crazy is Satva Leung filmed all of that. I thought he was just a skate dad for the longest time cause he would come into Whole Foods and I would ring him up like “Oh yeah you skate Waller right?” and then randomly I saw a photo one day on IG and it was like “the legend Satva Leung.” I used to watch
Welcome to Hell all
the time so I was completely blown away. But then he was randomly like “I have this sick camera setup, let’s film.” And then yeah it was total dubstep vibes, it was kinda sick. But he’s a total legend. Takes his kids to work on a bike with a big ass seat on the back.
Rad dad vibes. Recently you’ve been sharing a lot of your film photos on Instagram. When did you start shooting?
I started when I was 18 or 19. I had this shitty little camera that was my grandma’s. I was shooting a bunch of stuff in Temecula like Clinton Keith pool and Pala pool when they dug it up. But then I fell with that camera in my hand and exploded it. Shortly after that I moved to SF and I was kinda off it, but in the last two years I’ve been fucking around with little point and shoot cameras, doing a lot of street photography. Just bringing my camera out everyday, taking photos of whatever crazy shit I see. I’m actually about to print my first zine. Been sitting on some photos that I’m juiced on that I haven’t shown anyone. It’s called “The best day of your life” all color, all film, unedited and raw.
Do you have any photographers that have been inspiring you lately?
This dude Troy Holden is a super sick SF street photographer. Shoots the most unreal stuff. Then James Ferrando, SUBSIST! He made a book a couple years ago called “Unplugged” that’s just amazing. Gets me so hyped to have a copy at the crib. I always come home hammered and go through my zines and find that one and get so juiced. The photo of the dude holding the sign that says “have a nice day” also the photo where the dudes are exchanging money. I thought it was fucking insane that he captured that moment where they both have the bill in their hands perfectly. James is a legend.
You just got back from a trip to New Mexico, what were you up to out there?
Elijah Ackerly and Renette Hammer got married at White Sands National Park. It was so cool and sentimental. Everyone needs to go. I didn’t get to skate though because I flew Delta. Fuck Delta. They wanted me to pay $50 to check my board. It was the first time I traveled without my board.
I feel like every skater has a special trick they call their own and yours is kickflip fastplant. How did you get into that trick and why is it so appealing for you?
When I learned that trick I was visiting SF before I moved. We were at 3rd and Army and I was claiming that I was gonna fastplant Clipper the whole time then my buddy Joey was like “Yo you ever try to kickflip into that?” It’s easier than a regular fast plant in my opinion. If anyone out there knows how to do a fastplant, they know it randomly doesn’t work when you ollie sometimes and it does this weird heelflip thing and it looks super fucking stupid. The kickflip part gives you a moment to think about it, grab it, position your foot, and just do it. But honestly I’ve grown to hate it and I think it’s corny. I try not to do them anymore. But it still has a place in my heart.
Frontside or backside powerslides?
If you don’t want to get smoked just do a frontside powerslide. Because me and a couple buddies know all too well about the unorthodox backside powerslide to head slam. Knock yourself the fuck out type shit. Even if you know how to do it you can get hucked. I knocked myself out cold last year.
Favorite backside powerslide?
Tony Manfre in the GX video
SF Is Where The Heart Is
. He does a super long line and at the end he’s coming into an intersection and just does this mean ass backside [powerslide. Big inspo. Tony Manfre is a legend.
In your opinion, what’s the gnarliest hill in SF?
It’s kinda hard to say cause everyone’s over here doing Kearny left and right and that one’s obviously big. Kearny’s gnarly. There’s certain ones that haven’t been touched because they’re basically impossible. But yo actually I know which one is the gnarliest! Shout out Pablo. Elizabeth Street. Right next to 24th. There’s a sick photo that Pizzle shot of Pablo ollieing over the top. I guess the clip never went out, but he did it. If you go there you know it’s fucked. I wasn’t there but the photo was sick. RIP Pablo.
Best advice for a skater coming to skate SF?
Know your limits. Take it easy.
Shoutouts / last thoughts?
Shout out Skate Jawn, Bendo! Daniel Stelly, and shout out to all the homies that makes up this sick worldwide skateboarding community. Fuck the haters. Shut up and skate.

================================================================================

Can you kickflip?
Yes.
Can you walk on yr hands?
Yes.
Would you go skydiving?
Yes.
Would you skate the mega ramp?
Yes.
Can you get into bars?
Yes.
Do you care?
Yes.
Can you nollie flip?
No.
Can you mix cement?
Yes.
Have you ever built a wall?
Yes.
Have you ever hurt an animal?
Yes, but only cause it attacked me.
Do you ever cry?
No.
Do you stomp boards?
No.
Have you ever lost a fight?
Yes.
Have you ever rolled a joint while driving?
No, that’s retarded.
Have you ever been in an accident?
Yes.
Have you ever eaten mushrooms?
No.
Have you ever gotten air on a vert ramp?
Yes.
Have you ever slept in a public park?
Yes.
Have you ever shit in the woods?
Yes.
Have you ever answered this many questions?
Yes, in English class.
Thanks Emmett, you killed it.

================================================================================

Photos by Liam Annis
Interview by Zach Moeller
Where’d the name Young Sway come from?
My name is Josue, but it’s way easier for people to just call me Sway. I’ve been getting called that for like ten years.
Where exactly did you grow up?
I was originally born in Dorchester, Massachusetts , but then I moved around a lot. I stayed in Boston until I was seven or eight. I lived in East Bridgewater for two years, lived in a motel for a year, and now I’m in Fall River.
And how did you get into skating?
I started skating in Stoughton, Massachusetts. Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater was the first time I ever watched a skateboarder. I liked skateboarding, but what made me try it was my boy’s older brother. He had gas hardflips and had a box in front of the crib. I’d watch him skate and think “Yo, that’s it.”
You just got back to the East Coast after being out west for a while. Tell me about your time in California.
I was out there for five months. I was all up and down. I was in LA, then I went to Oakland and SF, then I went to Sac for a little. I did the triangle out there.
When did you start going out there?
The first time I went out there was two years ago. When I first went it was for three or four months and I did this commercial for this weed company. They flew me out and they got me an apartment for a few months.
How does West Coast living compare to life on the East Coast?
The West Coast is really expensive. The East Coast is way more affordable and living is also more real. People will tell you you’re fucking up but will help you. On the West Coast they can be kinda fake-nice.
Is it true you almost got pepper sprayed at JKwon?
Some tweaker looked at me wrong and pulled out pepper spray. She was yelling but she never came too close. She pulled it out like “you wanna get pepper sprayed motherfucker?”
Damn, it was completely random?
Yeah, we were all walking, me, Liam, and my boy Tony, and this lady looked at me and said “Don’t look at my dog like that.” JKwon has some fucking characters bro.
Do you have any other stories from that spot?
There’s actually another story with a dog. TJ Roger’s homie had his dog there and this lady was screaming. TJ said something and the lady yelled out “Who said that?” Someone made a joke and said the dog, and the lady came over and tried to square up. That’s crazy, how are you gonna yell at the dog?
How did you first get linked up with DGK?
I was about to get on this other shit, but I hit up my shop because I wasn’t sure if that was really what I wanted to do. But they said “We’ve been talking to the DGK people and can get you on shop flow.” They hit those guys up and I started getting shop flow.
When was that?
That might have been 2017. I was shop flow for three years or some shit.
Anyone else hooking you up?
I’m on éS flow. I get it through Kelly. And Technical Skateshop.
Your footage in Zeitgeist was sick. How did it feel to film for a project like that?
That was surreal, going on big trips with a company like that, and hanging out with people like Chaz Ortiz. He became the big homie, which is mad weird when you used to be 13 and would watch him on Street League and shit like that. It’s crazy that you get to go film with these people. I grew up watching Gold Goons and shit, and Brad Rasado is the shit. I love how he edits videos. It was a blessing, honestly.
Any memorable moments that stick out from filming for it?
I have a story from LA. We were out filming, and right when I’m filming this trick a car slides out running from the cops and swerves. My homie was filming the second angle out in the street and this car comes within five to ten feet of hitting the homie before crashing into two polls and a fence. Then five or six cops pull up on him. There was a helicopter… that shit was like GTA. I was just trying to film a trick and all of a sudden there’s just complete mayhem everywhere. The guy tried to run away. That shit was like watching Cops. It was mad spooky bro. Shit was right in my face. We had to stop skating.
Did you have a favorite trick you filmed from the video?
I feel like every trick feels good once you get it. That shit can be hard. The most memorable trick though is the first one that I filmed for the video, that tre flip nosegrind pop out at Eggs. It feels memorable for me because that’s where I’m from, so I have a clip in my city.
Do you have any stories from hanging with Stevie? What’s it like to kick it with him?
We went to a sick event he threw, some warehouse shit with his homies. This was a couple months ago before the video dropped. It was so sick chilling and taking shots with Stevie. The energy was so real. He’s truly a man who came from the struggle and made it. He cares for everybody, all of his homies around him, he helps everyone out. He’s fun as hell. A good ass time. He knows how to get down for sure.
How does contest skating compare to being out in the streets?
I don’t know. Contests are cool for like, I don’t know, an hour. But filming and skating out in the streets, that shit is like your artwork. It’s your masterpiece. What people will look at. It represents you.
You mentioned you’ve gotten tight with Chaz on trips. Is it true you’ve had to put him in time out? What’s he doing that’s time out worthy?
That’s my twin. We have so much fun. And oh yeah, facts. I’ve had to put him in time out a few times. Chaz is a little dog with a big dog bark. Sometimes you just have to put your twin in time out.
But has he ever had to put you in time out? That’s the real question.
Hell no haha.
Have you ever seen a UFO?
Nah, but I was with Liam and he says he saw one. Take that one up with Liam.
That was out near Vegas?
We were near Area 51 though. So it’s like when you’re in the cemetery and you think it’s haunted, you feel me? Of course out near Area 51 you’re thinking about UFOs.
What were you doing in Vegas?
Came up on some clips. Vegas is mad fun. It’s got some sick low key spots, it’s not ran through.
What do you think is the best spot in the world?
I haven’t skated all the spots in the world so I don’t know. I have to throw that shit up to Eggs.
What are you doing when you’re not skating?
Hanging out with the homies. We go bowling, we’ll do whatever is fun. Pretty much down for any activity. Go play ball, go to the gym.
What are you doing to survive the winter this year?
I’m going back to SF in a few weeks. I’m going to the SOTY award thing. Pretty sure Tyshawn is going to take it again. We need another East Coaster to win.
Would you consider yourself a family man?
Absolutely, for sure. I came back now to see my family for Thanksgiving. Growing up I really learned to appreciate my family. They’re not here forever so you can’t take that shit for granted.
Speaking of family, who are some of the people who have helped you to get to where you are no
w?
That’s a long list. I’m gonna start with my day one friends. My homie Stiff helping me out. My dad for instilling hard work into me. My mom for driving me to the skate shop or the park. Bobby and John at
Technical Skateshop
, so shout out to them. I wouldn’t be riding for DGK if it wasn’t for them. All the people who have helped me and taught me how to move. Stoughton Skatepark homies. There’s too many people. All those homies. I appreciate everyone.
Where do you hope to be in a year?
Dude, I’m trying to be in Barcelona. I’m trying to go overseas. I need to find out what that’s like. I’m trying to get my passport, I want to be out in Paris and Barcelona next year. All the homies from Oakland are telling me that I’ll go and will want to stay. You can be chilling like a king. And I know that food’s smackin.

================================================================================

Yo, what’s good man?
Chillin, smoking, sitting on my bed.
Word, you wanna do this interview?
Sure, you got questions?
I got a couple… So what’d you do today?
Uhhh, I worked. Basically just packed vegetables in bags and boxes for hundreds of people. I’ve been working at this place Honeybrook Farm in Pennington. I saw Sloan the first day I went to work on the road, it was funny.
Weren’t you working on a hemp farm in PA recently?
Nah I was just volunteering for the day, it was sick though cause they’re growing hemp for the first time in 80 years for research, and I got to visit one of their farms and experience the hemp seed harvest. It was tight.
So how long were you out in Cali for?
At least 13 months, I think a little bit more. Pretty much lived in my van the whole time.
What would you say the best part of the van life?
I’d say just being free and having options. You can do whatever you want you know?
What’s the worst part?
I don’t know I guess not knowing where to call home, just not being grounded. Also not having a bathroom or other comfortable things that make life easier. I’d definitely do it again though.
Where would you make smoothies at?
I actually made em in the gym a couple times. But usually I’d end up making instant smoothies with like protein powders and juices I could buy and water, maybe add some honey.
So what are hempseed smoothies?
It’s just like an Instagram account that I don’t really work on. But just trying to promote health products and maybe do like a smoothie cart one day or something.
Are you hyped to be back on the East Coast?
Yeah definitely, I feel like I’m right where I should be. I have a nice job now that I like, which is something I should’ve had for awhile but being on the road was just hard. So it’s nice to just come home and chill. I’ve been working a lot so I haven’t gotten to go into the city or Philly as much as I want to, but that’s alright it’ll happen.
Where have you been skating?
Mostly Ann Van and my house. Went to Princeton fountain a few times, and New York a few times, one time to Philly. I wish I was going anywhere more. Thinking about planning another trip out west with Zach and Eric, and just hit a bunch of shit along the way.
What do you like better SoCal or the Northwest?
The Northwest for sure. It’s so dope up there it’s all redwoods and shit.
So what’s up with CBD?
CBD is the non-psychoactive cannabinoid in cannabis and it’s known to be anti -inflammatory and beneficial to your immune system and overall creates homeostasis in your body.
What does rubbing CBD all over yr body do?
Basically takes pain away. We all have an endocannabinoid system in our bodies and it’s connected to our immune system. Basically it’s like… I don’t know I’m not a scientist so I don’t know exactly how to explain it. I feel the benefits cause I’ve been using it, and it just does magical things.
Word. So how fried are you?
Stoned. I just smoked haha.
You ever surf before?
I tried when I was little, I wish I did it more.
You didn’t try when you were out west?
Nah I wanted to get a surfboard but it would’ve made the van so dirty. I feel like you need a place if you really want to surf. But I mean Zack goes fishing a lot so maybe when he goes down there I’ll get a wetsuit and try while he’s out fishing.
You down with fishing?
Nahhh. I’m down to go out on the mish just to hang out, but I’m not trying to catch any fish. I’ll just take some binoculars or a book or something.
You got any tattoos?
Not yet, but I’m dating a girl that’s a tattoo artist now and she’s really cool so I’m thinking about getting one.
If you had to get one tonight what would it be?
I don’t know… I was thinking the Ann Van water tower would be cool.
How much money is a lot?
A lot of money is like too much money, but there’s never enough either so I don’t know, billions?
Sick answer. What’s the most you’ve ever smoked in a day?
Oof. Oh my god… That’s a lot of weed.
Can you think of any tricks you’ve learned since yr last interview a couple years ago?
Switch tre flips probably. Probably a bunch of tricks, I don’t know.
Where do you see yourself in five years?
Happy on a weed farm, smoking a bunch and skating. Maybe traveling the world having fun with my friends, going to the city whenever I want and taking off work whenever I need to. Just living life the way you try to imagine it.
Have you gone on any trips recently?
Yeah we went to Montreal for that Dime Glory Challenge, that was probably the most recent trip for me. That was so much fun, it was awesome to see you guys and hang out.
So where have you not been in America that you wanna go?
Definitely Montana, and the Dakotas. Check out some Native American shit and some landmarks like Yellowstone and stuff. The whole northern route across country would be fun.
Definitely, you got any last words?
Yeah thanks for hitting me up, and thanks to everyone helping me out you know, NJ, Habitat, Spitfire and Venture. They’ve all just helped me out and let me travel so much, I can’t thank them enough.

================================================================================

What’s going on man?
Not much.
How old are you and where are you from?
21, from Bangor, Pennsylvania.
What’s it like out there man?
What’s it like? Small it’s like hick town kind of, not much going on.
Close to Bethlehem?
Yeah like thirty minutes away.
Sick, so where do you normally skate?
Stroudsburg, its like 15 minutes from my house, Blue Park.
You skate with Shanahan a lot?
Yeah, he’s my man haha.
How long have you known him?
Probably like ten years.
Y
ou remember how you met him?
Yeah we were skating this spot in East Stroudsburg a little bank to ledge and I tried to do a wall ride and I didn’t even come close, we’ve been skating together ever since pretty much.
What would you rather do, drop in on a 15 foot vert ramp, or ollie a 20 set?
What the hell haha uh, let’s go with the vert ramp.
Whats the worst haircut you’ve ever had?
I got a pretty bad bowl cut a few years ago accidentally. I’d like to go to a barber but its like a crew cut or nothing, they can’t like give you a hair cut.
What’d you do today?
Just hung out pretty much, not that eventful.
You work?
Nah, currently unemployed.
What’s the shittest job you’ve ever had?
That’s an easy one. I worked at a medical waste plant for a little bit.
What’s the skate scene like in your area? Tell me a little bit about it
.
Well I guess it depends. Bethlehem is like 30 minutes away and that has a lot going on down there, Po had the skatepark built and stuff, there’s a lot of kids who skate down there, but we usually skate in Stroudsburg, so its like not as many kids and the kids who do skate are like, I don’t even know how to describe it. It’s small there, but in Bethlehem there’s a lot of kids who skate.
What’s the skate scene like in Bethlehem?
There’s different crews of kids, there’s a skate park and a lot of kids go to it. There’s older people, younger people, I don’t know how to describe it really.
Have you ever made a spot? or a box, something to skate?
Yeah we concreted this bank last winter, but just on the bottom so I don’t know if that’s really making it.
That’s improving it, that’s something. How often do you eat fast food?
Holy shit uh, quite a bit now, I don’t have money to buy good food all the time so I cave in.
You got any sponsors?
Nah, unsponsored.
You got no one backing you?
Andy Po, shout out to Andy Po.
Hell yeah. You go on many skate trips? What was the last one you went on?
Me John and fuzzy went on a trip to Tennessee recently, it was pretty tight.
That sounds sick, what was going on down there?
Not that much, we went to, my mom lives down there, she lives in the middle of nowhere pretty much, but theres just this road and theres nothing but fields pretty much but there’s churches everywhere, so every once and a while you’ll see some shit at a church, a rail or something crazy that no one would ever find, out in the middle of nowhere.
Was that your first time in the south?
Yeah, pretty much. I’ve been there before but never really by myself, or like, me and my friends you know?
If you could go to any country where would you go?
That’s a hard one, I guess Japan maybe.
Can you describe your dream skatepark?
Built by skateboarders. You ever been to Washington Heights?
I can’t remember it by name what’s it like?
Its got a lot of brick, It was built by city workers cuz its not all like perfect, really, There’s a brick volcano and brick quarterpipes all around, I like skating on bricks.
What’s your best trick?
Hahaha that’s great. We’ll go with pressure flip.
What’s your worst habit?
[From the background, probably Mitchell]
When was the last time you jerked off?
Uhhhhh…which question am I answering?
Whichever one you want man.
Road rage.
What’s the last spot you got kicked out of?
It’s in New York, in midtown, its like a gap to bench, Or a gap to bench to rail, Willy Akers lipslid it.
How long you been taking photos?
Probably like two years or something.
What kind of photos do you usually take? What do you usually shoot with?
I have a Nikkormat, a 35mm camera from the 70’s, I have a dark room in the attic, I develop all my own black and white.

================================================================================

Interview and Photos by Thomas Goldman
Where are you from and how did you get into skating?
I am from DC. I was born here, and then I moved to Maryland for four years but came back. My brother would skateboard and I wanted to be just like him, so I started skating too. He was also into tech decks, and I thought they were dope.
Growing up in DC, who were your main influences, and what got you hyped on skating?
My friends around me would get me hyped. I would always skate at Palisades skate park with my friends Nick, Dean, and Jack, and they would always hype me up to skate more. We would all go there and have these sessions after school just messing around and learning new tricks, it was awesome. Once I started going downtown and seeing all the guys gathered together at the plaza, I thought it was amazing to see so many people there. And then starting to see Bobby Worrest skating down there at the plaza was super cool to me and still is. He can put together the best lines.
Seeing people from your hometown ripping is sick. Seeing it in person is so much different than seeing it in parts.
Yeah, it was so sick. I hadn’t discovered videos at that point yet, and I don’t think my brother had either. Once I started getting into skating, my brother started fading out from it, so it was sick just seeing everyone out there in person. Super inspiring.
Who do you skate with on a regular basis in DC? Who’s out at plaza, who are you hitting up?
My friends Haneef, Dylan, Toast, Mikey, and Avery. There’s a lot of people to name, but for the most part, it’s that handful of people that I usually go out and skate with.
You recently did a board graphic for Brian over at Crushed. How do you know Brian, and how did that opportunity come about?
Well, when I was like 12 or 13, I had met this guy Tom who worked at the shop at the time, and he told me to come by and say what’s up. Then I went by and eventually met everyone there and got familiar with all of them. Later on, John John Rosemond was hyped about these drawings I was doing that I would send him, and Brian eventually asked me if I could do a graphic and I was hyped. I worked on it for a couple of months, but I finally got it together and I’m hyped on how it came out.
You have a part coming out soon with a younger squad in Richmond. What has it been like going there to film a bunch?
It’s been sick going down to Richmond to skate and film with Polly and everyone, it feels so much more productive than being in the city. There are so many distractions up here and it’s fun going down there with a set plan of getting clips, and then also being able to hang out and chill with friends. All the spots are cool, and when we would go to spots, we would find other spots that I would end up skating on the way. It’s also fun making spots. For the most part in DC, people just skate stuff that’s already there. So, it’s fun being able to manipulate the spot to your liking down there.
What keeps you busy when you aren’t skating?
Usually, I spend a lot of time taking photos outside of skating. I have been making photos for like the past three years, but for the past year, I have been really into it. Usually, I walk and bike around alleys and up and down streets or just hanging out with my friends taking photos of my observations while doing that.
What is your go-to camera and film?
I have a Leica M4-P with a 28mm lens, and that’s the camera I’m going to be set with for a while. I usually shoot Ilford HP5 which is black and white film, but sometimes I’ll shoot some color film when I feel like switching it up. It’s fun shooting with black and white cause it’s challenging; you have to look for textures and light and stuff.
You also develop film on your own and make prints. Do you ever make them for your friends or sell them?
Yeah, I do. I usually don’t keep any of my prints, I just give them away to all my friends. I would rather have my friends and family have them because I really appreciate going over to someone’s house and seeing my print on their wall, or seeing something I made on their table.
Who are some photographers you like?
I like Lee Friedlander. He is super dope, all the photos he made were so sick and inspiring to me. My friend Zane Grant makes super sick wide angle black and white photos, he’s always helping me and hyping me up to make more photos. Owen Basher takes the sickest skate photos ever, he actually has a book coming out soon. It’s sick to have friends who are photographers like Owen, Zane, and even you, Thomas.
So, you are moving to Richmond pretty soon to start school. What drew you here, and what are you looking forward to the most?
Well, I went to an art focused high school. I was always interested in VCU arts because a couple of my friends went there and loved it. I looked into it and I decided it’s close enough to home and far enough at the same time, and I can focus on photography there, so it felt like it was perfect. I just really like Richmond, too. I visited a couple of times and it had that homey vibe that I wanted.
Do you have any goals or anything you want to accomplish while you’re living here while you’re going to school?
I want to skate a handrail.
There aren’t many here, but there is probably one for you somewhere.
I’ll do an ABD on green rails. I just want to skate a bunch, put out footage, and just learn a lot of tricks. Learning new tricks is a lot of fun. I also want to shoot more photos, because Richmond holds the exact feeling of the kind of photos I like to make. It’s an old country like place with fences and shit like that.
Is there anyone you’d like to shout out or just give thanks to?
I wanna thank my mom, dad, Lily, and all the people that support me. And shout out Haneef Wilson, that’s my dude.

================================================================================

Interview by John Mcguire.
Photos by Bradford Bishop.
What’s the story behind the term juke?
It was a joke from when I used the word trying to describe a crappy curb-cut bump.
You were very ahead of the curve living and skating in Barcelona. What can you share from your experience? Compare or contrast to the US.
I went to Barcelona to learn Spanish and skate for a few months. I got a job teaching English and ended up staying illegally for about three years. It was definitely humbling to live in a foreign country and use a different language on a daily basis. In the US it seems less common to have the accessibility to get stoked on learning new languages.
What skaters local or international have gotten you fired up and inspired the last couple of years?
Oski and Heitor are fun to watch. Same with Magnus, Ibu, and Alex Richard. As for local, I’m definitely fired up about everyone in the crew for their own uniqueness. Gabe Chan and Nick Mistele are heavy inspirations for sure.
You work for a local coffee shop manufacturer. Can you make a solid argument why people should support local businesses?
They will let you build ramps in the garage, it’s a chill work environment, and they are super easy to talk to about anything.
I heard you’re a fan of mini vans. Any thoughts on the van life?
Yes I am, and an infinite thank you to you, John McGuire, for basically giving me that magical Toyota Sienna ’97 chariot. That thing has logged many miles with many skaters and is still purring. It’s an honor to drive. You can sleep in them, you can move stuff with them, and you can travel around and skate with your buddies.
Any hidden talents?
I was an actor in a TV series called Shangri-La.
Five things people need to know about Milwaukee.
1.) It’s a hidden gem for skating.
2.)
Wiskate.com
was one of the first-ever skateboarding websites.
3.) You can surf the lake here.
4.) You can completely detach from the city down by the river.
5.) Steny’s may have the city’s best Bloody Mary.
What’s something you could share with the younger generation of skaters?
You’ll meet the best people through skating, and the number of things to learn on a skateboard are infinite.
What does the future look like for Sean Hanley?
5 years: Figuring out how to be a dad. 25 years: Skating more transition, playing music. 50 years: Reminiscing, learning something.
Lutzka or Muska?
Muska, no dis to Lutz though.
Cryptocurrency or NFTs?
In on crypto.
Waffles or waffle soles?
Both but differently.
Frontside or backside?
Backside.
Aztec calendar or Chinese calendar?
Chinese Calendar.
A word that rhymes with orange?
More ganj.
Delta variant or Omicron?
Both a big bummer.
Gluten free or extra MSG?
Extra gluten.
Time travel: past or future?
Future to see where we’re at.
Virtual or IRL?
Virtual and then IRL.
Skate and destroy? Or skate and create?
Skate and destroy cause you’re still creating.
Email or snail mail?
Snail mail is more thoughtful.
Super spreader events or super shredder events?
Watch a super shredder event.
Nope or dope: Vaping.
Nope.
Snow.
Sometimes dope.
Tofurkey.
Never tried but dope.
Boy Bands.
Dope for them probably.
LARPing.
Very dope.
Dreadlocks.
Dope if they work.
Video games.
Nope.
QANON.
Hell no.
Thank You’s?
Family, friends, girlfriend, Beer City, Huh, Open Sesame, Phase 2, Sky High, Cream City, the DIYs, HeyHo!, Moana Skate & Surf Camp, Kronz, Anodyne, Wiskate, skateboarding.
F.U.’s?
Nah.

================================================================================

Interview by Devin Colon
What’s up dude? Let’s start with your name, age, and where you grew up.
Taylor Ballard, 28 years old, and I grew up in Edmonds, WA, a little suburb thirty minutes north of Seattle.
No shortage of skateparks out there. What was growing up in that scene like?
Growing up in the greater Seattle area had its ups and downs with the constant rain but for the most part was really cool. I grew up with a pretty small prefab park as my local but by the time I got my license, I started getting out to the better parks more consistently. In 2016/2017 a bunch of indoor ramps of all different sizes started popping up so I started getting into skating vert, which is what I mainly skate today.
How did shooting photos come into play?
I’d say I always had a little bit of interest in shooting photos. I borrowed a camera and took a photo class my first quarter of college when I was 17 but the teacher wasn’t down with me shooting anything skate related; so I dropped the class and didn’t find my way back to it until I was 21. I had to have two knee surgeries and two foot surgeries over the course of about 5 years; I still skated as much as I could during all of that but my body just wasn’t 100% for a long time. I picked up a camera in the midst of all that, I got really into shooting film and about a year into that got a digital camera and started learning how to shoot skate photos.
How soon after that were you starting to be approached to shoot projects and events?
It took a few years for me to really start getting the hang of things. 2016-2018 I was skating Marginal Way a lot and taking some darkroom classes at school. I shot a ton of film and skate photos at Marginal over the course of about two years and put together my first zine. I learned a lot those first few years but I’d say it wasn’t really till the end of 2018 that I was consistently shooting photos that I would be happy with today. Summer of 2018 I got hit up to shoot my first event and started to get photos run in some magazines here and there. In 2019 things started to take off a little more for me. Got out to a bunch of fun events, finished school, and put together a few more fun little zine projects.
You’ve put out a bunch of solo projects. Did you get a good response from those?
Yeah, I love putting together projects like that. I try to do something of that nature every other year or so. All the projects have gone really well so far. My most recent one went way better than I could have expected. I had a release party at Marriage Skate Shop in LA and probably had about 100 people come through. Broke even with printing costs in about two weeks and everyone seemed to love the zine.
How did the relationship with Marriage unfold leading up to the release party?
I had been into Marriage once or twice, it’s in a really great location in Echo Park not far from where I’m living right now. In November of last year, I was putting the finishing touches on my zine and was looking for a place to have a release party. I went out for a chill session in DTLA with some of the Baker/Deathwish guys and they introduced me to Ronnie who owns Marriage. I started chatting with him about doing something for the zine at the shop and he was down. Ronnie rules and the shop is so dope, be sure to stop by if you’re in the area.
You’ve been hustling since you got down to Los Angeles. How has the job hunt been going?
Yea finding a decent job has been tough. I was on unemployment for awhile when I first came out here cause I lost my job at the beginning of the pandemic. That ended in September of 2021 so I stated doing DoorDash. I had some major car troubles last year, then tore my ACL skating flat ground and couldn’t work for awhile which set me back quite a bit. I was looking for jobs online heavily for like 2 months while I was recovering from surgery but haven’t been looking as much lately. I do okay with photo stuff but right now there’s no way I could fully support myself just from that. I’m sure something cool will come up eventually though. I have a lot of freedom with my schedule right now which is great but I’d really like to have a little more financial stability; just not willing to sign up for a full time job that’s not gonna push me in a good direction or makes me unhappy.
Whose van are you in right now? What’s the itinerary looking like?
I’m in the Lakai van at the moment. We are skating around Dallas, TX for the next week or so trying to stack some clips for the new video.
What setup are you shooting with?
I shoot with a Sony a9 for digital and use a handful of Godox strobes. I shoot a lot of film as well and use a Leica M6 for the most part. I’ve got a few fun point and shoots I use here and there and a few medium format cameras but they are both broken right now. Would love to get some more medium format going again soon.
Are you still developing your own film?
Not since a little before I moved to LA. My scanner started having a lot of issues and most my scans started looking really bad, I also started shooting a lot more color, that process is a bit more complicated to do at home. From 2016-2019 I was shooting mostly black and white, processing everything at home and making darkroom prints at school. I really miss making prints, that was always my favorite part of the whole process. Kinda lost my motivation a bit when I finished school and didn’t have access to a darkroom anymore. The second I have the space though I’m gonna get that going again. There were days I’d spend 6-7 hours processing and printing, it’s therapeutic in a way.
Would you recommend school to a young aspiring skate photographer or do you think it’s possible to just bypass all that?
I think classes can for sure help with learning basic camera stuff, but I really don’t think they are necessary. Everything you need to know is online. I only ever took one entry level digital photography class and most of what I learned over the years I taught myself and just came from trial and error. Shooting film helped me learn a lot about how cameras work and taking film classes was super fun and helped me a lot mainly because I had access to a darkroom. I feel like if you’ve skated for most of your life like I have, and grown up watching videos and looking at magazines, you already have a good idea of how things should look. You just have to learn how your camera and lights work and some other basic photographic principles. Shooting skating isn’t easy, it requires you to think fast and no matter how good you get you’re still gonna blow it every now and again. The learning process also is so similar to learning how to skate, it’s challenging and to get good at it you gotta love it.
It seems like the Seattle scene has so many talented skateboarders. Do you think that kept you motivated to progress?
It really did! We always had a good amount of fun events going on and a lot of indoor ramps. Some of my favorite photos I’ve shot to this day are from late 2018 till the end of 2019 of my friends Keenan Witte, Jesse Lindloff, and Nolan Johnson at all the ramps and parks around Seattle. I miss skating and shooting up there a lot these days. I was planning on spending a month or so there last summer but plans changed when I got hurt. Hoping to make the drive up this summer when my knee is feeling good again.
I’m sure there were plenty of photo ops/learning opportunities in Chile as well. How was all your time down there?
Yeah man Santiago is my home away from home. I’ve been traveling out there every other year or so since I was 16. I feel a lot more at home out there than I do in LA to be honest. In 2017 I started to get a little more connected to the scene out there. I met my good friend Amaru Maturana on a short trip in 2015 and through him, I met most everyone else I know out there. The scene is amazing and there are so many spots and amazing skaters. There are whole cities up north too that no one has touched except for some of the Chileans. My friend Nicolas Garay is one of the main filmers out there and does a magazine every year called Fuera De Foco. I try to help him out with stuff whenever I can. I’ve shot a handful of other small things for some other magazines out there and got to help with a little Adidas project in 2020.
I was even planning on moving there after I graduated. I planned a three month long trip from February till May of 2020. I ended up going to Brazil for a few days mid March and that’s when Covid shut the world down. I tried to fly back to Santiago but was told I wouldn’t be allowed back in. I ended up having to leave a bunch of my stuff behind including all the film I shot cause I had to fly back to Seattle from Florianopolis. I still have a bunch of photos from that trip I never did anything with. Crazy times!
What’s your favorite photo you’ve ever gotten?
Man, that’s a tough one! I wouldn’t say I have one favorite, and most of the time I’ll end up really stoked on a photo because of the story behind it more so than the photo itself. Simon Bannerot is one of my favorite skaters and we shot a photo on this gap to rail just a few minutes from where I grew up in April of 2020. There’s always been something special to me about shooting a skate photo around where I grew up. The photo ended up being a Lakai catalog poster but the fact that Simon and I got to shoot a photo in my hometown makes that one extra special.
Another one that comes to mind is one of the first photos I shot with Zane Timpson. The day I got to LA I hit up my friend Nick Hanson. He invited me out on a session with Zane. We shot a photo of a no-comply crail switch crook on this bank to Jersey barrier. The trick ended up working surprisingly well for a photo. Looking back at that photo brings back so many good memories of my first days in California and as hard as it is that Zane isn’t with us anymore it makes me so happy that our paths crossed and we got to share some amazing times together.
One more that stands out is Breana Geering’s crook fakie that ended up being a Thrasher cover. Nothing about that photo was planned. I went out to San Bernardino with Shane Auckland and a bunch of other homies. We had a big crew that day. Breana was on that session and someone suggested we go check out this roof spot after we were done skating the brick quarter pipe. The trick was a bit of a battle but with a little persistence and encouragement, Breana rolled away. I ran into Pedro Delfino the next day and showed him the photo, he quickly told me I should send it to Burnett and that they should give Breana a cover. I sent it the next day but felt kinda bad because I didn’t ask Breana what she wanted to do with the photo first. It ended up working out great and a few months later we got a crazy surprise.
How long did it take you to fully grasp camera settings and how they all intertwine? Was there something that helped you understand it better? I’ve tried so many times to remember but I need to think so hard about it whenever I’m shooting on a manual film camera.
When I first started shooting film I’m pretty sure I was shooting mainly in aperture priority mode which made things really easy because you just have to think about setting your aperture the way you want and the camera sets the shutter for you. Within six months or so I started shooting full manual. I remember it being challenging at first but just like most anything if you do it enough, and consistently, eventually it starts to feel natural. I will say though it took me a lot longer to develop a good eye for how photos should look and be edited than it did for me to learn how camera settings work.
Any closing thoughts on photography? Advice to the people wanting to get into it?
I just wanna say thank you to everyone who has been a part of my life and helped me find my way these last few years. I’m so stoked to be here and feel so blessed to be a part of something so special that has allowed me to cross paths with so many amazing people. To anyone getting into shooting skating always remember it’s a process, just like skating it’s not something you get good at overnight. Shoot your friends, study other people’s work, barge events, and use them as a way to network and get to know people. Always remember it’s just skateboarding, it’s not that serious, keep it mellow and let the photos do the talking.

================================================================================

Interview by Tracy Gee. Photos by Keith Debottis.
Ok basic questions, where you from? Who you ride for?
I’m from Mount Laurel, NJ. Currently living in Philly and I get stuff from Enjoi Skateboards, Lakai shoes, Bones bearings, and OJ Wheels.
How did you end up on Enjoi? There’s not a lot of people skating for Dwindle companies over here?
Well when I was younger this skate shop named Curbside opened up in Medford, NJ. I was smart enough to know that skate shops are supposed to help you get hooked up. I ended up going in there and asking them if thy could help me send out my footage. Ended up riding for the shop and they sent my footage over to the Dwindle dudes and shortly after that I got my first box from James Craig and been rocking with them ever since.
How did we end up filming together? I remember when you first came to the city you were kind of an annoying little kid?
I was! But I mean, I was skating Love all the time and filming with Andrew Meyer a bunch. Meyer eventually came out with
M1
which was the first thing I was involved in and I remember you filmed a couple clips for my part. Once I was done with that I feel like I gravitated towards you because it was super convenient. I was going to Temple, so I would get done with classes and the entire
RAV
squad would be at Cecil. I really enjoyed skating with them, and I think you enjoyed my craziness.
That was a pretty interesting time, do you
have any good memories filming for
RAV
?
That was some of the best times on my skateboard. I can’t recall any specific memories, but I do think it was funny that I would write down a trick list and keep it in my wallet. You would ask me ‘where we going today’ and I would pull out three pages of tricks I wanted to do. Honestly, the best memories I have of
RAV
was definitely the end because of all the hype that was around it, and putting a lot of work into something people were stoked on was an amazing feeling. It gave me a lot of motivation to keep going.
That’s what’s up, so what motivates you to try some of the tricks that are a little gnarlier?
I feel like you just have to be mentally prepared for that. I feel like there are two types of skaters, one that will just go for it or someone like me that has to think it all out. I have to do my rituals like kiss my hand three times, three times, or knock wood three times, three times.I guess what helps me is doing a routine every time I try a trick because if I do it right it makes me have the feeling to just go for it. Also if you think that obstacle was at a skatepark, you wouldn’t think twice, you would just go for it. Just because it’s a little bit rougher shouldn’t change your mind about going for it, you just have to have that confidence.
We’ve been filming for a little bit, but we be getting into arguments about what to and what not to post on Instagram. What are your Instagram beliefs on what to post?
Don’t post tricks you just learned, even though that’s hard for me because I get excited. All the gnarly stuff you think you can film don’t post that. It’s hard because nowadays you got to do both. You get mad because you’re like ‘oh we could’ve filmed that’ but try to get better with it.
Why you post that gnarly shit the other day then?
I hit you up! You said you’re only coming out if someone is jumping down the 16.
It’s cool, I forgive you. So we finished
RAV
, you had some stuff come out after that, what are you working on now?
Right now I’m getting some stuff in this OJ project, trying to finish up this little part for Lakai and I’m pretty sure my friend Jace and I are starting to work on an Enjoi project. That’s up in the air but honestly I’m just filming and trying to put my footage in the right places and taking the opportunities that are in front of me. Oh and your short video that is coming out. Super stoked on that!
VX
or HD?
VX for sure! It looks way sicker and everyone around here films VX very well. VX in the streets is just raw East Coast and looks way better in my opinion. HD is for movies, but that’s what the companies like. What do you prefer?
You got to put some respect on Mulhern’s name, best HD filmer in the game, but I prefer VX.
(kid jumps off roof at Muni)
Yeoo! My bad, Florida kids out here jumping off roofs and whatnot. But even though that was insane to watch, what was one of the more gnarlier tricks you had to go through?
Nothing like what we just saw, that was incredible! He just broke three boards and my trucks haha. I don’t like jumping off big things like that. I had a bad experience when I was younger, broke my elbow real bad. Nine years later now I got all these rituals when I get scared. It’s definitely entertaining though. I’ll leave the scary stuff up to someone else.
I’m glad you skate downtown more, who are your favorite people to skate downtown with?
My roommates when we aren’t getting annoyed with each other, which is Kris, Mike, Graeme, and Destin, but I love coming down to Muni and seeing the bandwagon and the people I’ve been skating downtown with since I first started coming down.
Do you consider yourself tech or more of a rail gap skater?
I feel like I’m an in between because I want to be a rail gap skater but sometimes some of the shit is just way too gnarly for me so I would consider myself more in the middle. I don’t know, I can’t get gnarly like those kids on Instagram or whatever, they be doing flip in, flip out. That shit is difficult. Then again social media makes you feel lower than what you really are. Can’t compare yourself.
It was cool to interview you. Any last words, shoutouts? Any words of wisdom?
Did you know how I was going to answer these questions?
Kind of, but didn’t expect you to talk so much.
Well, I’ll try to keep it short if we ever do this again.

================================================================================

How long have you been skating?
Like 26 years maybe haha.
What got you into it?
My friend Darrel, he’s from my neighborhood. Just riding around butt boarding, he had a regular board and an old school board, a sizzler, and that was like my first board, riding around butt boarding on hills. It was like a banana board, plastic, roller skate wheels, the whole 9.
Where you from? Pittsburgh?
Yeah but I was born in NJ though. Wildwood NJ, I moved to Pittsburgh when I was 6 or 7.
What made you move to Philly?
Just the skate scene and my friends. Back in the day Matt Reason, and a couple guys used to come up here and skate all the time, and a couple of them went to Temple so we’d come skate for the weekends, and that’s how I got to know a lot of people.
Do you remember the first time you skated Love?
Yeah, Subzero would have these contests back in the day, it was the second contest. I missed the first one, but the second one was the first time I went there, and I skated Love, it was rad. All the guys from New York would come down, and from all over, it was rad.
Have you been down there recently? It’s fenced up but I know people still been down there.
Yeah they’re still keeping the dream alive. I was down there on Easter Sunday, these fools were still skating it yo! Haha they had a bump set up to the side, and I guess my man was trying to get this last trick, and he got it. they pulled it off.
Who was your first sponsor?
My first sponsor was Sean Sheffey, he hooked me up with Life boards and stuff. I met him at a demo in Pittsburgh, and he started sending me boards and stuff.
You’ve been pro for a while, you have a favorite board graphic of yours?
Yeah, this one Aesthetics, one where they made us, uh, babies. I don’t know how to explain it but all the photos looking over the fence, like to play baseball or something, yea it was one of those, i think that was my favorite graphic of all time.
Do you have input normally on the graphics?
Not normally, they normally do team series nowadays, but back in the day ye ah for sure. Like when I skated for Capitol I had all my ideas printed up for capitol, and some for Aesthetics too, but not too many after that.
What’s the longest you’ve ever spent outside of Philly?
Just on the road, for like three months maybe for Axion tours, I never really moved anywhere else or stayed there for a while for skating. Just go visit friends or whatever.
How were the Axion trips?
They were good man, they were really good, it went through phases you know. I remember one time we drove all way from California to the east coast and back just on a skate trip. It was rad getting clips and hanging out with the brothas.
Been to any hip hop shows recently?
Yeah went to one the other night i saw some old school cats, it was Lost Boyz, Kwame, Roxanne Shante was there, 3x Dope did a guest appearance, it was amazing. It was epic.
There some cops right there but its cool,
Huh?
Some cops passing, right there.
Oh ok, uh, fuck. I can’t get caught with weed either fuck.
So you skate New York a lot?
I used to a lot. Sometimes I still sneak up there and catch a shred every once and a while now.
How is Philly skating different?
I think it’s the same, I don’t know. To me it seems like, it’s more raw spots, a lot of things are harder to skate, you know you got the “one push.” The east coast one push trick, a lot of stuff like that. You gotta just get it whatever it is, it seems like the same kinda though.
3 favorite Philly spots.
I like the ghetto banks, that spot’s ill, that’s like the dopest spot to me. It’s in the hood, its got the projects behind it, it just looks dope. the whole downtown area, Love and Municipal, City Hall was really fun, I like Puerto Rican park a lot. That spot’s dope.
I feel like your skating all the time do you try to take care of yourself?
Not really, I think skating just keeps my body good. Sometimes I feel like I can skate better than I can walk. But just keep it moving you’ll be alright!
When was the last time you got drunk?
Friday night? At that hip hop show. A little drunk.
Any skate travel destinations?
trying to get out to China once, see whats up, that’d be cool. Seems to be like the spot, you know. But whatever comes about I’m down for.
Any advice for pros out there now trying to keep doing it?
Yeah all theses dudes are super rad nowadays, so I don’t think the skating part is the problem, it’s more like loyalty to things. Don’t always be moving around all the time you know, stay rooted to something and get to know that, and I’m pretty sure it’ll take care of itself. And it seems way cooler you know?

================================================================================

You doin anything?
Sitting at Kingswell. It’s boring here. Don’t print that.
How’s the shop been?
I’m hyped on it. I was gone on tour for four months and I come back and it didn’t implode. It us ruling.
Hell yeah that’s good to hear.
I’m psyched that the tattoo aspect is really flowing, but what I like about the store the most is organizing events and throwing gallery nights and parties.
Have any parties recently?
We had one over the weekend with the Berrics and Levis where we screened a Documentary, and we are having one this Saturday with the artist BIGFOOT. He is nervous, he says, it’s his first solo art show in ten years. Since the I-Path days.
Yeah, I remember that dude, I was always stoked on his stuff. Let’s get some tour questions out of the way…Worst thing about being on tour for 4 months?
Worst thing? Dude, my body gave out halfway through. It’s the skating hard, then get in the car and sit still for four hours and then try and skate again, and eat shit food and all. Couldn’t keep the stoke. I think after the three month mark, my body was like… Naaaah.
Top 3 Melch-isms you’ve said into a microphone?
1.Tropical storm grind! (boardslide to hurricane)
2.Garden State Barrier (Jersey Barrier)
3….
3?
I had to sell some Indys. Sorry. 3 is ChaÃ‘el (cocoa Channel) frontside flip over the ChaÃ‘el.
Were you scared to hurricane Wilshire on a broken board?
I was so amped, It was mid session and I didn’t even think about it. I was so close to landing when I snapped my tail that I knew I had it in the bag next try. So there was really no thought process to it. That whole session was the shit. I started out with a caveman, and as I pulled a caveman, just warming up, Antwuan Dixon rolled up in a brand new Benz wearing a tuxedo! It was so surreal. He popped out of the bling mobile and was the sickest hype-man. I pulled it off in 6 tries after that. I was stoked but I feel like he was like 30 times more hyped than me when I pulled it.
Ever run into Antwuan again?
All the time. He’s always the homie. “Melcher, remember when I was going to prom and and you killed Wilshire?”
What’s something we didn’t know about Richie Jackson?
Richie has never driven a car in his life. He got me into the mustache thing. Which I am happily out of now. Seriously though, never even sat behind the wheel of a car ever.
Haha, one of the questions I got from a homie in Philly was, “When did the mustache become more important than the skateboard?”
Yeah, I’ll get back to you in a few mins…
(hour later)
Welp, that’s good enough, thanks for your time Melch, next time I’m in LA I’ll stop by the shop.

================================================================================

Whatup Ando? So where you from and how’d you start skating?
What up! I’m from SF and I started skating when my cousin gave me my first skateboard in the late 80s but id say I really got in to it around 90 or 91 that’s when i was able to go cruise around and really see people skating around the city and got in to reading Thrasher and watching videos and stuff like that.
What was skating like growing up for you? Did you ever try to get sponsored or anything?
Skating was rad when I was growing up. Growing up in SF in the 90s I was able to see and skate with most of the people that I looked up to in the mags and videos. I got really inspired by EMB and all the downtown SF spots and pretty much spent most of my time down there skating with homies. I tried to get sponsored for sure but never was on that level, I could do my thing but didn’t really go for it to hard. I always got a lot of free stuff from homies and from working at FTC at an early age so was never really tripping on getting sponsored that much.
So when did you start getting into photography?
I got in to photography when i was about 14 or 15, I would go skate with my friends and bring a disposable camera with me from Walgreen’s and shoot some stuff, then my homie Ian’s dad gave me a real nice Nikon that I had for a few years then gave back. Didn’t shoot a ton of stuff but was in to it and would always shoot photos of my family and some other random stuff. Around 17ish i got really in to making music and playing instruments, did that for many years and then when I was 23 got back in to photography and shooting skate stuff. I started to shoot polaroids of alot of skate dudes and just went from there. Dennis Mcgrath sold me some stuff and taught me  few things and that got me really in to it, from that point on i was really hooked.
And how long have you been living in SF for?
I was born in SF grew up in the Richmond district and lived here till i was 19, then moved to New York for 5 years and came back been living here since.
When did you link up with FTC, and how did you become “the dude” of the shop?
I went to summer school the summer before freshman year of high school because my grades sucked, and it happened to be a few blocks away from FTC, the original FTC on Bush St, so I would go chill there everyday, I was really shy so i didn’t really talk to anyone for months. I would just read mags and watch videos and wait for pros to come in and stuff like that, then one day one of the guys there asked e if I wanted to help him out with something and I could pick out a video to keep. I said yes and asked for the color video. Basically he had me clean up a huge dead rat that was all maggot covered and nasty as fuck. From that day I started doing odd jobs for stickers, or random product used or whatever, and about a year later Kent opened up the store on Shrader st and asked me if I wanted to work one day a week, and of course I said yes. Over the years of working there I got to meet everyone and see all the ins and outs of what made FTC so tight. I think this was a really special time for skateboarding and FTC was right there in the forefront so I paid attention, tried to learn from others good and bad, and try to do things the same way that guys like John Vid, and Joey Six footer did back in the day. Those dudes and Kent were like my mentors in a way and taught me a lot about everything to do with FTC and beyond.
What do you do on a day to day basis for them?
I do a little bit of everything really, mostly marketing,social media stuff, shoot photos for catalogs and products do some web stuff, help with general production stuff, and team manage. I really enjoy the team stuff.
Have you ever fanned out taking photos of someone?
For sure! Taking a photo of Mike Carroll, Tommy G, or any dude I grew up watching skate i fan out a little bit on the inside. Over the years I have been on some trips with some heavy guys and I have fanned out a little to myself on a lot of dudes, but usually keep it to myself.
I know you recently got married, congrats! Has anything changed as far as being able to get out and shoot or just hang out?
Not really, I am a little more of a homebody these days, I would say now when I go shoot i have it a little more planned out, I don’t just roll out and see what happens like I used to. I don’t have a car anymore so that changed it more than the marriage thin. My wife is really supportive of me doing my thing so its pretty rad for sure. She is a very creative person so she gets it when I have to get out. I also really enjoy shooting alot more non skate stuff now so been doing a lot more of that and that kinda keeps my bug to be creative fulfilled for sure.
What’s yr camera setup look like?
Canon 5d mark iii and a few different lenses, 50mm, 16-35mm, fish eye and a few others but generally you can get the job done with those 3. A bunch of random flashes and some other random shit like tripods or whatever.
Do you like doing video or photo work more?
Honestly I love shooting photos more than anything and I really enjoy filming when i have a project to work on or if i feel like getting some exercise. Filming is a lot of work but fun. Sounds crazy but also holding a camera when filming really starts to hurt my hand, I have broke it some many times skating that at this point its kinda fucked.
What are yr thoughts on going to school for photography?
I think its a rad idea and I wished i would have done it, in fact i still might, but really if you love something you do it enough you kinda learn what you need to do to make it happen. I know there is a ton I could still learn from but i think with proper inspiration, and with practice you can do whatever you want to do. Photography is no different.
What’s up with the project yr working on now with homeless people? How’d that come about?
I broke my arm last year, and at the time I was shooting a lot of skating using flashes and stands and shit, and I couldn’t set those up due to the fact my arm had no strength and my cast was so fucked hand was useless. So I went out one day with my camera and just walked a few miles and shot a bunch of stuff, like regular street photog stuff nothing amazing, but met a bunch of people and most of the cool ones were homeless. I shot one photo of this man and talked with him for a while and I thought the photo was really powerful, so the next day did the same thing but really focused on trying to shoot homeless people and talk to them a little bit. Started to get a good thing going and then got the idea to bring stuff to give to them. Asked one guy what he would want the most other than money and he said socks. So, got a bunch of socks and started going out, giving out socks and getting these peoples stories, chilling with them and smoking cigs going in to their camps stuff like that and got hooked. I go in phases with this project and one day hope to have it be something that helps people change the idea of who homeless people are, the causes of it and the reasons people end up on the street. It really interests me and I love getting in to these weird worlds that are right in front of us and most people don’t bother to try to understand or document. I have a rule tho, I will never shoot a pic unless I ask and in all of the pics you have to see their eye, full eye contact. I never want them to feel like I am exploiting them or taking advantage of them. I want them to feel comfortable and hyped to tell me their story and let me photograph them. Its been really good for me and I love it and all the people I have met.
What’s the craziest interaction you’ve had with someone while working on it?
I had a knife pulled on me one night, dude thought I was trying to steal his bike, dude was kinda on one and really didn’t scare me because he seems a little fragile, so I stood my ground told him what I was doing offered him some cigs and socks, and dude ended up being one of my favorite people. I haven’t seen him in a while apparently he got of the streets a few months back and is now in a hotel somewhere. I’m hyped for him.
Have any skate projects lined up?
Not really, actually looking for some inspiration right now with skate stuff. Really its the people that get me hyped. Shooting with guys like Jabari Pendleton, Roger Krebs, Drake Johnson, Dan Charlton and all the young bucks, and the homies is what I love to do. Any one that gets me hyped on or off the board I’m down, if not its a little harder for me
Who are yr favorite people to go skate with?
Probably the homies, Jabari for sure, Roger, James Capps, Lucus Erlebach, Tory Hereford, all the FTC Young Bucks, the homies in Spain Raul and Anto, Matt Jones, and any one else that gets me hyped.
What about photographers that get you hyped?
Dam that’s a big one. Obviously in skating there is so many, Dennis Mcgrath, Mike Blabac, Bryce Kanights, Kyle Camarillo, Joe Brook, Dave Chami,and Seancho those dudes really got me hyped and still do. I love photographers outside of skating and that’s where I have been drawing most of my inspiration lately like like Alberto Korda, Michael Zagaris, the homie Charlie @prspc.tive is off the hook, my homie Marcell Turner is killing it right now, Dylan Maddux, Ken Goto, Boogie, Elan Watson kills it,Bruce Gilden, martin Schoeller, so many I could go on and on…
What’s up with Ian Johnson’s rap tapes?
Oh dam dudes off the hook! Drops bars of hot fire. Me and him used to make music a lot and he still does. He was actually signed in Japan and has made a bunch of rad stuff.
How long have you been whipping that scooter?
5 years riding dirty, that’s my baby. The lil homie Baby Blue.
Who are some kids coming up in SF that yr hyped on?
All the young Bucks, that like family to me, Tory Hereford, Jesse Viera is amazing, Drake Jonson and Dan Charlton are insane, love all the snack dudes they kill it, Roger is the shit, Taylor Nadia, Matt Finely, Sean Greene,  Trevor Thompson, Sam Zentner, any kid who just skates and loves it.
Who’s the worst employee at FTC?
TAYLOR! WITHOUT A DOUBT!
What’s the craziest thing you’ve ever seen on the streets?
Shit, I’m old as fuck so there’s been a bunch of crazy shit who knows…
What will you be doing
ten years from now
?
Hopefully retired in Barcelona with my wife drinking sangria and smoking a cig at the beach getting a tan, chillin with my homies.
What about
ten minutes from now
?
Chilling with my wife and my homies drinking sangria and smoking a cig…
Have any advice for kids trying to learn photography?
Just shoot, don’t worry about what camera, what format, or any of that shit. Try to live a rad life and document it and you will get rad shit. Have fun you’ll do it more and get better at it. And try to have a camera on you as much as you can, you never know when you gonna want it till you want it.

================================================================================

Where are you from?
I’m from Emporium, Pennsylvania. It’s about as small as you can get. We had one stop in the county until I was 13 or so.
But you live in Lancaster now? How close is that to Bethlehem?
Yep, I love in Lancaster now. We’re like an hour and a half from Bethlehem. Since I moved here, I’ve become friends with a lot of guys from the Lehigh Valley through my friend Nick Tyrell. Homebase has cultivated an amazing scene up there. I remember I met Po for the first time over 10 years ago when the shop just opened.
What do people who don’t skate do for fun in Lancaster?
It seems like a lot of my friends, both in and out of skating, are real into local, organic food. I know that might not be the coolest thing to talk about in a skate mag, but it’s big out here. It’s pretty nice though. All year round I can get vegetable grown within like 20 miles of me.
Do you eat healthy?/How often do you eat McDonalds?
I don’t really eat meat…I eat fish and dairy but I’ve been off the chicken/pork/beef train for about 15 years. I was vegan for about half of that. In the past few years, I added dairy and then seafood back into the mix though. It’s still easy to eat like an idiot though. Like I’m a solid 25 pounds overweight and I don’t eat meat. That’s primarily beer weight though.
What are you drinking tonight?
Old Milwaukee my roomate had in the fridge and Pinnacle vodka. Think we can get me a beer sponsor out of this.
How many weddings have you been to?
Definitely over 100. This year was light with like 15. 2012 was crazy, about 35 shoots. Then one of the companies I worked for got bought out. For 2014 I’m going to try and book more on my own. It’s the best job in the world if you can swing it.
Worst wedding you’ve seen/or any trainwrecks?
I saw the best man puke on the bride during the introductions into the reception last year. It was amazing. I saw it coming, was about to take the picture, and had to just pretend like I didn’t see anything. I’m still upset about not just taking that photo, but they would’ve been pretty bummed out. He wasn’t trying to be a dick, he was just nervous that he was about to make a speech.
Do weddings make girls act crazy?
Weddings give women, especially bridesmaids, an excuse to go a little crazy. That is a fact. Do what you will with that information.
What do you think is a video that influenced you when you started skating?
Welcome to Hell
, hands down. I started skating on my 5th birthday, in 1987. I had an ALF board, then a Ninja Turtles board, than an Omar Hassan Blockhead. About a year after I got my first real board, I got teased by this older kid for carving weird and I got super bummed. Bummed on skating in general. Took a few years off. Was a jock in junior high, then I started smoking weed and became friends with the punk rock kids in my town. From there it was full tilt back into skating. That was ’98. I had a VHS with
Welcome to Hell
,
Thrill of It All
, and
Mouse
on it. I had a VHS dub of a dub of a dub. I watched that tape to death when I was 16.
How do you think skating has changed since you started?
Skating itself is exactly the same. The only way skateboarding changes for me is being at a new park, or spot, or learning a new trick.
Ever have a photo show?
Yeah I’ve been trying to keep things rolling. Three or four times a year I try and show my most recent stuff. I’ve been very fortunate to have venues to show stuff. Like the shit from this interview is all from this year. I hate the idea of being someone who rests on past work. I want everything to be fresh.
Favorite city to skate?
Philly man, c’mon. I moved to Philly in 2000 based on skate spots alone. And it’s better than ever. City Hall is gone, but fuck it, I’ll take all that shit Jesse Clayton has built any day over some ledges and stairs.
Your camera get you into trouble recently?
Indirectly. This is actually something I wanted to talk about because people need to know. I got busted in Connecticut this year for weed. Total bullshit. Was skating the Fairfield park on a trip. I was parked like half a mile away and the cops brought drug dogs to my car because we had out of state plates, there was a small music festival in town, and the other car had a “Show us your tits” sign in the window. The cops said it was just a ticket so no big deal. Turns out I’m about to lose my license for six months, even though it’s decriminalized in CT. That shit carries over to some states apparently. Be careful out there! I talked to literally four lawyers. They all said they had never heard anything like it but I remain fucked as far as PennDOT is concerned.

================================================================================

What’s going on Tyler, what’re you doing today?
Just early morning hype, watching a few skate videos. I got work at 4pm so probably gonna do a little lurking and a little skating before then.
Nice, so how old are you and where are you?
I am 33, and I live in San Diego, California. I was born and raised here.
Tell me about your work.
Yeah, I work at Hodad’s, a burger joint in Ocean Beach and it’s been around for at least thirty years now. It’s mom and pop owned and they’ve always been down with the skate scene and skateboarders. Some pretty epic skaters have worked there back in the day including Neil Heddings. A lot of skaters always roll through. I wanna say like 80% of the people that work there can do a treflip or a kickflip.
So what is it about pools?
The adventure, the lurking, the unknown, just all of it. When I was younger and I first got introduced to it, I was just blown away. Anybody can go to your average skatepark, which is sick, I love that, but just having to put in so much more work for your spot makes you enjoy it that much more. And when you’re there with just you and your homies it’s that much more gratifying. I’m also into the
new
aspect of it. I’m always trying to skate new things. I also feel like that keeps your fire lit, the fact that every pool you find is completely unique, even if they’re the same shape they can be so different.
Are you super knowledgeable of all the different types and names for them and stuff like that?
Yeah, there are names. I guess you could say I’m knowledgeable at this point. I’ve just kinda learned from all my predecessors. Texas Dan is an old legend that kind of came up with names for coping back in the day. Like pool deck, and lady finger, so yeah there’s always weird terminology that’s specific to the pool skating niche.
How long have you been hopping fences?
Since my early twenties at this point. I’ve been doing it for a little over ten years. I came onto it a little later in the game than a lot of my homies. A lot of my homies stumbled upon their first pool when they were a teenager but pool skating is a little bit different. You either have to be introduced to it or stumble upon it organically. It’s a little different than going to your skatepark and figuring out how to skate.
Does your crew ever skate street?
Oh absolutely. I love street, that’s fucking roots ya know. I’ll skate anything, I love slappies, hill bombs, fucking huck it down a stair set still. But in reality, if I had the choice laid out in front of me I’d be like, oh shit let’s go to this new pool.
How do you find new pools? What techniques do you usually use?
Pretty much every scenario in existence has applied to finding pools. Obviously with technology these days like Google Maps and stuff, that’s made it a lot easier. But some of the best stories I have about finding pools are I’m on my way to the grocery store or I’m just cruising down a street. Just in that moment I’m like oh shit and see through the crack in the fence an empty pool, or “That house looks abandoned right there. Oh dang there’s a pool back there!” And always through word of mouth. The pool skating scene is a crazy underground network. Your homie finds a pool in the next county over and hits you up about it and you do the same thing when you find your pool.
And, that’s offline right? Like you’re not blowing up spots on Instragram and stuff?
Yeah, I mean like I said the internet has changed it a little bit more these days and online networking definitely exists. And I’m grateful for that. I’ve met some fucking rad people on the internet that I wouldn’t have otherwise. Like homies in New York, and completely random other places that I wouldn’t have expected there to be pools. We network and get shit going. But more or less it’s like a secret society of a sort.
Have you ever gotten into really sketchy situations?
Hell yeah. We all have some really good stories. Luckily we have never been taken to court or anything but we’ve definitely had some close calls with homeowners, and police, involving guns, bats, fucking car chases. Yeah dude there’s been some wild scenarios.
I heard you found a dead body on
e time.
..
Oh yeah, apparently someone was murdered in the house during the time we were skating it cause it had been sitting there abandoned. So the police had installed cameras and caught us skating and busted us. They were like “You guys know somebody was killed in this house?”
Damn you should have tried to get the surveillance footy.
Dude, I know! We’re like where’s the clips?
What cameras are you using right now?
Right now for video, I shoot on my VX2000, and then I have a Super 8 that I mess around with. And then for stills, I’ve been shooting on a Canon EOS 5D. I’ve also been hyped on film lately. I’ve been shooting on a Holga 120 and a Canon AE-1 Program. I’ve got a camera problem. I’m also coming out with a full VHS vid soon that I’ve been shooting on this VHS palm camera. So I don’t know. Like another addiction to coincide with skateboarding. Photography and film.
Let’s talk about Cemental. When did the first issue come out?
The first issue came out in 2015. I’ve been making zines for ten years before that probably all sorts of little ones for fun. Kinda like informative ones or like punk rock anarchist ones. Never really any ones revolving around skateboarding. I kind of did a mocking one towards skateboarding before then called
Get Off the Wall
which is kind adjust a little joke between the homies. But then Vans saw that I was using their slogan and they sent me a cease and desist. I thought that was fucking hilarious. So we came up with Cemental, kind of like a combination of mental with cement. And then we just ran with it from there.
You said “we” does anyone help you out? Or is it really just you?
I definitely do 95% of the work but it wouldn’t be the mag without my homies and everybody involved in it. I view it as a collective. I never want it to be just my shit either, I try to get other people to write stuff and throw in some of their photos and experiences.
Do you get a lot of other people’s zines too? Like zine swaps and stuff?
Yeah I’m super into that, so if anyone out there is into trading zines definitely hit me up. Another obsession I have to go with film and skateboarding would be zine collecting. I have a couple of full sized totes just stacked full of zines from the past fifteen years. Kevin at Lookback Library is usually pretty good at keeping me up to date on the Skate Jawns. I love what he’s doing.
Can we just take a moment to acknowledge Kevin Marks? That dude is a saint.
Yeah fucking holding it down for print media. I’m lucky enough to be able to see it first hand in San Diego.
How many copies are you making per issue?
Around 500 usually. Each one is hand folded still.
Do you make everything at home?
Yep, pretty much my living room is my office. The lady hates that, but I got silk screening setups, light boards, and my camera area. It’s all just right here in my living room.

================================================================================

What’s up boys! My first question is what everyone is probably wondering, how did you guys come up with shit4brainz?
(Soy) Charlie will give me a notebook from time to time and tell me to draw in it, to make stickers or whatever. I made some dude with shit on his head, and we decided we should do something with it.
(Charlie) It was a long time ago, like 2012 or something.
And what is 4×4?If I’m correct
Doodootage
was a prior video of yours, is this basically another
Doodootage
?
(Charlie) Kind of, but we really were just fucking around, this video we’re actually trying.
(Soy) Yeah I guess this video is what
Doodootage
was supposed to be, we got our act together in a way and we’re doing this shit. It’s pretty much done now.
4×4
is the name of the video, and it’s just all the homies.
What are you doing with shit4brainz?
(Charlie) We’ve been making some wax… Just your normal fake company shit. Shirts, stickers, doing the wax, hopefully some more shit in the future. We got some little bootleg shit going, we’re re-doing the old PWK cupcake wax.
(Soy) There was this old skateshop in south Florida that used to make this wax that kind of smelled like cupcakes, and it was shaped like a cupcake and everything.
Speaking of Florida, did you all grow up skating together, or how did this crew form?
(Charlie) We started skating a lot together when we were 19 or 20. Soy and his friend Fez wanted to do a video called
Far Out
so I gave him a bunch of footage of mutual friends and then we all started skating together and ended up making
All For Now
. We met Dylan (Sepe) along the way filming for that video, and Thomas I actually met up here in New York. We’ve all been skating for three or four years together.
So all four of you are from Florida, but all the footage is in New York? How long have you been filming for?
(Charlie) There might be a handful of Florida clips but mostly in New York. I took on filming duties, and I’m not a filmer, so I was figuring it out for a while. Probably close to four years total, but in the last year, and especially since Covid started, we’ve been skating a lot.
What are you guys filming with?
(Charlie) A TRV900, with a century optics mk2 baby death shit. It’s great, right now compared to the VX, you can get a whole thing for $300 while VX’s are over $1,000. They filmed
Baker 3
on this shit!
Have you guys been stressing a deadline or anything?
(Soy) Living somewhere where it snows kind of puts a rush on things, but not really. We do want to put it out soon…
(Charlie) Hoping before the end of the year. Everybody’s parts are pretty much done. We’re just replacing stuff now.
Are you guys making DVDs?
(Charlie) We’re bootlegging the video onto color VHS tapes. We found that E.T. tapes are pretty cheap and they have this cool green bar on them so we’ve been searching thrift stores for E.T. tapes to print on. I’ve also gotten some other Nickelodeon tapes that are orange…
(Soy) I found a sick TOOL VHS, where the tape is all red, so that’ll be cool. We also all watch tons of VHS all the time so it just made sense. My living room looks like a Blockbuster.
I know there’s only the four of you guys, but who’s footage are you most stoked on, who’s been killing it the most?
(Charlie) Feels like recently all of us are going pretty hard, but I think some people might be surprised by Sepe’s part. He’s been doing work lately. But everyone’s going to have a solid part. Thomas goes out all the time, Soy’s been in huck mode recently. I’m filming the whole thing so if I want to skate something, I’m there anyways so I might as well do it.
Who’s the worst filmer for your part?
(Charlie) I mean, I’m usually skating with Thomas or Soy so they’re my main filmers. Dylan is probably the worst filmer. He nailed this one clip, but he’s bad. I think Soy is my go-to for not fucking up clips.
Why are you guys obsessed with the number 4?
(Soy) Well, I was at an Allman Brothers Festival that I would go to every year in Florida, at this forest camp. This one year I kept hearing everyone screaming “four!” “four!” all throughout the forest for three days. I didn’t know why, but then I finally realized it was just because of disc golf. But I just heard it for so long I kept repeating it, and then on the drive home we saw all these signs with 4 on them and it just stuck in our fried brains. So now it’s 4×4.
4×4 is available for purchase here.

================================================================================

What was your first exposure to skating?
When I was like ten or eleven my parents moved to France for like three years. I didn’t know anyone there except for the neighbor, who spoke English. He was like four or five years older than me and he skated, so I got a skateboard so I could hang with him. That’s pretty much how I started. I didn’t know anything about it though, I just kinda rolled around.
How long have you been taking skate photos?
Since 2005, the year I blew out my knee. I couldn’t skate anymore, so I’d just tag along. I was always into photography, but for some reason I never thought to take skate photos. I would always rather skate than take photos you know.
So you were taking photos of other stuff before skate photos?
Yeah anything. My old man gave me a Nikon F3, I still have it. I would just take photos, and maybe sometimes develop the film. I fucked around with some point and shoot, like those old rectangular ones. But I never thought to shoot skate photos. I’d go skating, and just skate, you know.
What are some of your favorite things to shoot besides skating?
I like using photography as an excuse to travel whether it’s a skate trip or not. So I guess just travel photos, and landscapes if you’re at the right spot at the right time. Last Fall I went out to Washington state to go hiking with my buddy who lives out there. It was pretty much we’d wake up at 4am, set up the tripod, and shoot photos. That shit was pretty fun. Got some good photos. And then I got two daughters and I shot tons of photos of them, but my problem is I only have like big cameras, I don’t have any small point and shoots. i feel like if I had a point and shoot, I’d shoot so many more photos.
What’s the longest you’ve ever spent traveling?
The longest was probably four months in Europe with a EuroRail pass, but I didn’t really shoot skate photos back then. That was just full skate mission, just backpacks, one pair of sneakers and a skateboard.
Who’d you go on that trip with?
My buddy Sam Willis, you remember that photo I sent you of that dude doing the rock and roll on the flat wall in that like weird bowl out in the woods? That’s my buddy Sam, he lives on a farm in Virginia, that’s his backyard. Actually we went to Japan too, his brother lives in Japan,we went there for like 5 weeks, also just a skate mission, no photos unfortunately.
Were you guys filming or anything or just straight skating?
We definitely filmed stuff. I think we filmed more stuff than we had photos. We had photos of everything but the skating. The skating was just all about being on the board. Yeah we definitely have video somewhere, but I don’t know where it is.
Favorite skateparks?
I didn’t even grow up with skateparks, but if I had to pick a couple right now…there are a bunch in Connecticut, local parks like Plainsfield, Willamantic for sure, Westerly park is pretty fun. These are all parks that nobody’s ever heard of. Washington street, can’t skate that park, it’s sick, can’t skate it though. I don’t know for me honestly I prefer street skating to parks, so much more fun.
Ever do a photo show?
Yeah a few, I’ve done a couple photo shows ate skate shops, which seems to be kinda popular these days. And then my buddy does an art gallery in Narragansett, Rhode Island and I had some photos in there.
What was the first photo that you ever had in a magazine?
My buddy same, the dude that I went to Europe and Japan with, he did a frontside ollie off this little do-it-yourself quarterpipe under a bridge into a wall. It was in
Lowcard
in like 2007. The minute I saw that I was just hyped.
Any advice to someone just starting out trying to shoot photos?
I would say honestly just shoot photos. Whether people like them or not, just shoot photos if that’s what you like to do. If you’re good at it, and you really like it, hopefully something becomes of it. That’s what I’m hoping. Keep shooting whether people use em or not. Just keep shooting photos, and have fun, and use it as an excuse to travel.
Do you spend a lot of time looking for spots?
Yeah I mean I feel like I could spend more time, but I try. Rhode Island isn’t that big. There’s so many dudes up in Boston doing it, that anytime I go up there they kinda show me. But yeah I go around, and look for spots outside of Providence in the sketchy areas. I actually just about two months ago, moved into the woods, just outside Providence. It’s near where I grew up, and I know a dude out here who’s good with concrete. He used to work for sloppy pouring parks, but then he went off and did his own thing. I’ve just been trying to find spots to make some cool do-it-yourself type shit, and shoot some photos. We have been trying to find spots to work on, like if there’s no landing, make a landing, if there’s no bump to bump off, make a bump.

================================================================================

Where do you work?
I’ve been working at a small granola factory in Greenfield, MA for the past seven years, 40+ hours a week.
Are you from here? Have you ever left the area before?
I was born in Massachusetts, I’ve lived here my whole life, but skateboarding has brought me all over the country. I’ve been to San Francisco twice (which was rad as fuck) and all over the East Coast. Traveling is the shit, I wish I had more time to do it. I live in a small town in Western Massachusetts so it’s really tough to get yourself out there. Jim Gagne is the only one to come from this shithole called Greenfield.
Are you a “soul skater” like me, or just lazy (they are actually the same thing)?
I skate for fun, plain and simple…And it makes my soul feel good so I guess I am? As for being lazy I guess it varies day to day. I try to stay productive.
You seem smarter than a lot of people. Are you? Or are you just smart enough to keep your mouth shut?
I feel like I have a decent advantage, I’ve eaten a lot of smart food in my life. Don’t tell my secret! Nah I’m lying and I’m gonna shut my mouth now.
What does Nate Jackson do every day?
Weekdays consist of working 9-5 everyday haulin’ oats. After work, I usually just chill with my beautiful girlfriend and watch movies. I don’t get to skate during the week very often. Weekends I pretty much skate and drink coffee.
Do children look up to you as a role model or cower in fear at the sight of your face?
Maybe a little bit of both I guess. It may be a natural reaction for children to have fear…I am a Jackson. Sorry, I can’t resist a good MJ joke.
Would you submit to a makeover if it meant I could get you boards flowed because of said makeover? I would get you some tight pants and bracelets because that’s hot right now.
I’m a little old to be changing my style for anyone. Just kidding, I’m desperate and I’ll do anything. Not sure if I’m joking.
If we were on tour and I took you to a nice restaurant, would you know what to do? Like with your napkin and forks and stuff?
Of course dude! I’d use the utensils to eat with and the napkin to wipe my damn face. Easy.
Are you uncomfortable right now? Why?
Yeah. My nuts itch.
Do you see a therapist? I see a therapist.
No, I’ve never seen a therapist. I was told that I needed to see one, but that bitch was crazy so I wouldn’t take her word.
Keep up the good work Nate, I’m proud of you.
-Toro

================================================================================

How old are you and where are you from?
What’s up I’m 22 and from West Chester, PA.
There’s a big difference in length between this video and your last video, “Anywhere But There.” What made you cut this one shorter?
Basically I wanted a smaller video so I could more easily direct my focus on the spots and keep the project’s pace. “ABT” definitely wore me out and so I  felt scattered in time. Told myself after that to only give it a year tops for the next one.
That’s sick because one of the things that stood out to me were the spots in the video. Were there any videos or filmers that inspired you to make “Marinate”?
Thanks man. I put a lot of time into biking around. Fuck I mean anyone who has been putting in the work to make full videos still, Mulhern, Zack Saes, Tracy G, Joe O, AJ. I really like the stuff Quasi has been putting out, Daniel Dent’s videos, and B-More energy videos are tight.
Is there a reason you decided on making it all black and white?
Initially for continuity within the skating and locations. Then I wanted to incorporate some parts like the titles/credits with a fuck ton of color stimulation which contrasted the b&w better.
Any particular moment in the video that stands out to you? Something like a favorite clip or your favorite day of filming
?
It was funny watching Kade just slam the shit out of the chicken on the table and throwing a bunch of random seasoning on it. Wasn’t much of a marination process but we still ate. Skate wise there’s a line of my roommate Tyler at a mini golf course that has to be one of my favorites. We’ve talked about skating the little pond on the course the past four winters when it’s drained, so it was nice to finally check that one off. Got the clip right before the boot too. Fuck, also the last clip in the video where Paris wallrides the burger sign at Checkers. We had to go back for that a few times because the drive thru line would always pile up, blocking the run up. Funny hearing the orders in the course of filming that. Got that one on the boot too. Owners came out and saw a bunch of holes in their plastic burger sign and tried to get pictures of my plates.
Do you have any shoutouts?
Shoutout to anyone who’s let me film them, Eat and Upchuck for songs in the video, Keith, Shane, Lola, Leddy, Efron, Paris, Skate Jawn, Checkers, and super citizens who constantly feel the need to take photos of my plates.

================================================================================

What’s up man, what did you have for breakfast this morning?
I had a real thick one, eggs, meat, and cheese in a bagel ‘Murican style.
For those who don’t know where are you living these days?
I live in Malmo, Sweden.
Can you help American readers understand why Scandanavian women are so beautiful?
They look beautiful on the outside because they are demons on the inside!
How often are you making trips across the bridge from Malmo to Copenhagen to skate
?
All I can say is that I should do it more often.
You’re stateside in Detroit right now, what brings you out there?
I’m out here meeting with Slim Shady, going to give him my demo-tape. Nah I’m here on an Adidas trip working on a project with Shin Sanbongi and Silas Baxter-Neal.
Any idea when it’s supposed to come out?
I think the beginning of next year!
Besides Adidas who else is hooking you up?
I get boards from Polar.
What’s some wisdom or sage advice Pontus has shared with you?
I guess some of his wisdom is “Do it faster! Booombaaaww fast grind there, hit that wall, boom!”
Were you on the Polar trip to Japan? If so how was that and what’s the biggest culture shock you experienced there?
Yes, it was amazing. The craziest shit is that people are damn kind, they really greet you like family. Also there’s so many people living in Tokyo. People were sleeping on benches in the middle of the street with their laptops next to them and no one bothered them.
Sounds like a different world. You ever make it out to New York?
Yeah, I went there with Polar a year ago also a few days this year before going to Philly.
Who were you skating with out here?
The Willoughby G’s, friends of Andrew, Tao, Oski, Caleb, Emile, Ville, a lot of good people.
Tell me about your cats.
They are my babies. The older one was recently really sick and the hospital bill reached $2000. Some people would never pay that amount for a cat, but I’d pay anything.
Are there any up and coming Swedish skaters you think people should keep an eye out for?
The whole skate school (the Bryggeriet Gymnasium) is packed with crazy kids. I really like this girl named Moa Zander, she is ripping.
What’s up with the skate school? Who has attended it?
It’s amazing, you can skate during school time and stuff. Oski, Heitor Da Silva, Fernando Bramsmark, Ville Wester…
That’s pretty solid alumni. Any parting words or shoutouts?
Shit, I don’t know. Thanks for having me and shout out to the Willoughby homies for showing me around NYC on my first visit. And thanks to Pontus for taking me there!

================================================================================

Photos by Nathan Rowland. Interview by Jawn Coltrane.
What have you been doing today?
I’ve been skating a little, filming a little, checking spots out, and getting food. I’m about to go film right now actually.
Nice, where you at?
I’m in Denver right now. We’re like DTC area, Colorado.
What’s the best thing about Denver?
To be honest, just nature itself. You’re surrounded by mountains and stuff. You can go to the city, go out and camp, you can go snowboard. You can do a whole bunch of stuff out here. It’s super sick. I like the skate spots and the people out here are dope. They got good people out here for sure.
Do you snowboard?
I have a lot of friends that snowboard and a lot of opportunities to go, I just haven’t really taken the chance, but one day. That will be sick.
Do you camp?
Hell yeah, camping is sick. Just chilling with the homies, you know. Eating good, grilling, making a fire with sticks and stuff.
What do you do when you’re not skating, besides camping?
I do video shoots and stuff. I’ll be making clothes, playing basketball, soccer, I just do a lot of things.
You make clothes? What’s up with that?
Recently I haven’t been doing too much of that. I have been trying to find different stuff to work with, but I just make hats and stuff, shirts, pants. It depends on what you like and want.
Have you ever gone on a skate trip outside the country?
I’ve traveled pretty much all around the United States. I haven’t been to Europe. That would be so sick. I’ve been to Cali. I fuck with like Nebraska and stuff like that. They got spots in a lot of places that are sick. Phoenix is dope and Kansas City for sure.
If you could go to any country to skate where would you want to go?
Australia is sick, Brazil would be super dope. Copenhagen for sure. Germany would be sick too.
What about Colorado’s skaters? Some of the greatest of all time or some of your favorites?
What do I think about them?
Yeah sure, that too.
Honestly, they’re gnarly dude. I don’t know, some of the spots out here are fucked so if you skate them you gotta be like, that fucking guy to hit that rail or hit that spot you know. But for sure, Julian Christianson, Tanto for sure, a lot of homies I know. A lot of OGs that I looked up to, I grew up skating with them and shit like that. David Reyes is sick, Windsor James and them, they’re dope as fuck. I don’t know, Andy Torres is sick.
Is 303 making a video right now?
Yeah. It’s like the 25th anniversary or something like that.
You’ve been trying to film for that?
Yeah. I’ve been trying to keep that shit steady. Filming for that for sure. I would be hella stoked to have some stuff in that.
What do you think about contests? You ever watch them or skated them?
I fuck with it, contest skating is dope. It’s fun as fuck watching everybody get down and have fun. Watching that shit, you have your favorites or whatever and you just want to watch the gnarliest shit go down. I fuck with it.
You ever do one though?
Yeah, growing up I was for sure hella into them. We always had local contests and like a year or two ago I did a Tampa Am. Best Foot Forward, things like that.
What do you think about filming for IG?
Honestly, if you want to do the gnarliest shit and publicize one Instagram, it’s whatever. It just depends on how you feel about it. If I hopped on that rail and posted it on the gram, it’d still be sick, but me personally, I’d rather film in the street. That’s what I grew up on, just skating in the streets and filming on cameras. On the phone, it’s super sick to film stuff with your friends, to keep galleries of stuff like that.
How much you
be hanging out at 303?
I’m down there like every day, or every other day. It depends, I go in there and say what’s up to the guys and stuff like that. Or if I’m on the read a magazine and look at a board type day.
What’s up with Colfax Ave? That’s where the shop’s at right? Got any stories about that street?
That street is so gnarly. Skating through is pretty sick. Skating over the bums when they’re laid out and they’re just chilling.
What’s the worst place that people like to skate in Denver?
The skatepark, the park is pretty gnarly. I don’t know, it just gets so packed.
What’s up with your phone man?
I kinda fucked it up so now I can’t play music through the aux. So if I’m trying to play music in the car. I can’t do that. That shits fucked. Hopefully I get a new phone.
Alright, but you do got one.
I got a temporary, very fucked up phone.
What’s the worst job you ever had?
I was like 14 or something like that. I had to go door to door with these frames and candles to sell. This one kid I met in school was like, “Hey bro, you want to work?” I was like, money, that’s dope you know, no problem. I started working there, turns out you gotta get into a whole van and I had basketball practice too. I’d get off basketball practice and go straight to work and get home and barely sleep and wake up and then go to school. So that was for sure not one of the funnest things to do, but I had money in my pocket if you know what I mean.
What do you do for money?
I do a lot of things, honestly. I’m modeling and stuff like that. I make clothes like I said, but haven’t really been making clothes lately. Small things here and there, working on cars and stuff.
What’s your favorite thing about skateboarding?
Favorite thing about skateboarding is being yourself. You don’t have to go out the way to impress anybody or anything like that. Just do you, you know, that’s what I fuck with about skating for sure!
You want to do any shout outs, last words, thanks. Anything like that?
Thank you to the fam you know what I’m saying. Shout out God, I mean shout out everybody for real. Stay positive and keep moving forward. Do everything with love behind it.

================================================================================

Photos by Ben Hull
What’s goin on?
Nothing much man just living the life of a normal person for the last half a year ha. But I think I can start skating again. My physical therapist told me I can.
Damn what’s it like being a normal person?
It’s terrible. I don’t do anything besides work all the time.
Are you working now?
Yup, I’m a waiter at this restaurant like five minutes away from my house.
Well we gotta do a Skate Jawn interview so go take a dump or something.
Haha alright cool.
So what happened to you? How did you get hurt?
Just got hurt a couple times and didn’t take care of the injuries so they all got worse. I have tendonitis in my right knee, I have this soft tissue problem in my left ankle where the tissue restricts me from pointing my foot all the way down. Got that from landing primo really hard down the euro gap at x-park. Plus I
So you are doing physical therapy for your knee? How long have you been doing that?
Yeah I’m doing physical therapy for everything. I’ve been doing it for like two months probably. My physical therapist said I only have a couple more appointments left till I’m all done. Hopefully I’m all healed up by then.
Yes hopefully. So what’s going on with your video part buddy?
I don’t know when Steindl plans on putting the video out. Haha I’m not in the loop of things anymore.
How much footage do you have saved up for his video?
I think I have a couple minutes. I have some stuff I’m hyped on but the rest is doo doo by now.
Are you still riding for anyone or did they bail on you? Or do they not need to know you haven’t been skating?
I told them what was going on and that I couldn’t skate for a while. I’ve talked to Jerome at Birdhouse somewhat recently but that’s about it. I hope no one bailed on me but if they did, I completely understand.
What are the chances we could squeeze a last minute mini part for Sabotage 4?
I hope we can. That would be awesome, even if I had a couple clips I’d be hyped. All depends how long it takes me to get back into the groove of things.
You got time. Who are you hyped on right now? Skater or non skater.
Joey O’Brien, Tore Bevivino, Julien Heller, Matt Militano, Clint Walker, Riley Hawk.
Obama?
What is Obama?
It’s a president type thing. We gotta wrap this up. Any last words?
Yeah I would like to thank my parents, friends, family, everyone at Ambler Skateshop, Jerome at Birdhouse, Vern at Bones, Brad at DLX. Thanks Marcus and Skate Jawn for making this interview happen. Thank you to Penny for always dealing with my shit when we skate!!

================================================================================

I know from experience that valet can be the best and worst job, which happens to be your current occupation. What’s the deal with your favorite customer, the White Whale?
I valet at this nice steak house, and this guy comes in guns blazing like Rodney Dangerfield from
Caddyshack
but even more raunchy. He’s wild, but also a serious baller, so he’s allowed to do pretty much whatever he wants, because everyone knows he’s gonna treat them well. He gives each valet $100 every time he comes in, so whenever I see that guy pull up it makes my day.
Your dog, Marlo, eats everything. Some would say he’s a genius. What’s up with his teeth, and how does he eat?
Haha, he’s a bull terrier that my girlfriend and I rescued. All his teeth were grinded down and rotting when we first got him. So he had to get like 18 of his front teeth removed. We think he was a bait dog, hence the grinded down teeth. Pretty fucked up, but he has his back teeth so that’s how he eats.
What’s up with the crop duster Pulaski switch flips?
Haha, all flip tricks come and go. Sometimes they work perfectly, but most of the time they look like shit for me.
Any good Baltimore stories come to mind?
Man this is a hard one. As most people know, Baltimore is hood as shit, and unfortunately some of the best spots are in the hood. So we’re at this spot and dudes start coming up to me and talking about skating. I expect them to know Tony Hawk or maybe Bucky Lasek because he’s from the area. This hood ass dude throws out Dennis Busenitz’s name. I just started laughing in my head wondering how in the hell does this guy know about him. Same spot same day, this guy comes talking about how we’re making the block hot and we need to get the fuck outta there. We’re all like, okay understandable, this is your neighborhood, we’ll leave. For some reason, the other people in the neighborhood start standing up for us heavily, to the point where I thought they were gonna fight their boy over it. We ended up skating a little longer and leaving on our own will. So there is one good thing about skateboarding’s popularity.
Give me three of the biggest differences between the greatest city in America (Baltimore) and Hollywood for ugly people (Washington D.C.).
Baltimore is blue collar and D.C. is white collar. People in D.C. are far more attractive than the people in Baltimore. Getting kicked out of spots in Baltimore is very rare. It is expected to be kicked out of every spot in D.C. Oh and D.C. has a thousand more ledges than Baltimore. They’re pretty much polar opposite cities.

================================================================================

What’s up Charlie? Let’s start with the basics. Name, age, location, and any sponsors you have.
My name is Charlie Cassidy. I live in Pompano Beach, Florida. I’m currently being hooked up by Vans, Alien Workshop, Bones, and Flatspot Boardshop. The guys over at Flatspot have been backing me for ten plus years, and I really appreciate all of their support
We’ve been skating together for a while now and I know you have been working on a video part, can you tell me about that?
Yeah, I think it’s 4 years in the making now. We’re pretty much done, though. My friend Tyler Ross is in charge of the filming/editing. Full parts should include Ryan Ward, Chris Freistat, Tyler Rennard (aka Soyboy), Anthony Garcia, and myself. There’s not an official name yet, but by the time this interview is printed there should be a teaser or something out.
Tell me about Shit4Brainz.
Shit4Brainz is a project my friend Soyboy and I started. We intended to use the brand as a sort of inside joke within our friend circle. A kind of multimedia manifesto we could use to collaboratively document our warped friendships and interests. I was frustrated with so many awesome pictures/videos going to waste. Disappearing on Snapchat or casualty to broken iPhones. So Soyboy and I created Shit4Brains as a safeguard, a place for firends to send us anything from skate clips to awkward Katie Perry sing-alongs. A lot of Shit4Brainz material also centers around the number 4, which we consider good luck. We designed/sold stickers/t shirts for a while, but recently haven’t had much time or money to put into Shit4Brainz. Soyboy also moved to New York a few months ago, so it has been hard to keep the ball rolling. For now we are mainly focused on our blog (shit4brainzzzz.tumblr. com). I think it’ll be fun to look back on years from now, and laugh at all the stupid shit we were into.
You skated in the last All City Showdown in NYC on the Local Express team, I heard you got a ridiculous number of clips just in that one day. How was that experience?
Yeah that was a super fun and crazy day. I stayed with my buddy John Valenti in NY a couple weeks before and he mentioned All City, and said he’d buy me a plane ticket if I entered. Needless to say, I was down. It was Valenti, Soyboy, Dave Caddo, and me skating all over Manhattan. I was really trying to make the most of the trip because I wasn’t sure if I’d ever be back in NY. So I skated as much as I could, and actually ended up getting a $75 ticket for skating the courthouse, haha. It was worth it though.
I was told you got tackled by security that day too, must’ve been fun.
Hah not quite, but that security dude was definitely crazy. He didn’t try to tackle me, but he did push John and try to grab my backpack. Our friend Eby noticed the guy was top heavy, so he gave the guard the slightest push and he fell over like a ton of bricks. It was crazy, there was a cop across the street that saw everything and he didn’t try to stop us, haha. We all got the hell out of there before anything else happened.
Whenever I call you in the morning to skate you’re usually finishing up yoga. What got you into that?
Around 5 years ago, Ryan Ward and I simultaneously hurt our ankles. Ward’s mom introduced me to yoga to help with the heal, and since skating and my job are both very labor-insensitive, I kind of just stuck with yoga to keep my body loose and my mind clear.
Like a ton of other Floridians you clean pools for work. Ever find a pool you’d like to skate later?
I think I’ve only found one really sick pool. It was a clover kind of shape, which I hadn’t seen before. Unfortunately, I never got to skate it.
In an intro to an old part (Spread The Good) you do stare switch laser flips and now people request them left and right.
How do you feel about the no-look switch laser flip?
Haha that’s my party trick I guess. I’m not too into laser flips anymore but if the homies ask for it, I’ll usually give in.
Anyone you’d like to thank, or shout out?
For sure! I’d like to first thank you and the guys at
Skate Jawn
for this awesome interview. I’d also like to thank my family, my boss, my friends Alison Parente, Tyler Ross, and John Valenti, Dave and Brad at Vans, Brennan at Alien, CJ at Bones, Aaron and everyone over at Flatspot Boardshop, and the former BC of Coral Springs. I couldn’t do what I do without your support!

================================================================================

What’s the official name of your diet? (Rip-It, Camel, and McDonalds)
Ha, it’s the super toxins diet. Mixed with a little bit of the Atkins diet. I hear Matthew McConaughey is on it too, so I have that going for me.
What is the origin and importance of the “dirty long johns”?
That name speaks for itself, gotta have some dirty long johns for these winters.
How has your life changed since becoming the Bohtz team manager?
Being the TM has been amazing, but I did just demote George and Spivey to flow. They need to step it up.
How did you start riding for Scum Co?
I’ve been going up to Pittsburgh for a while now, Rob Starr who made the Fuck Yinz videos lived in Baltimore for a while so I met all those guys through him. I think I got drunk with Nick one night and he asked me to ride for them, had to prove my worth at the bar. It has been probably three years or so now.
Based on personal experience, what is Stan’s general relationship with NYC cab drivers?
Ah man, yeah we had a bit of confrontation with a cabby over the summer. Dude came after us with a tire iron and Stan gave him the old left hook and knocked him into his own trunk. It was insane haha.
I heard you guys were trying to smoke in the cab though?
The cabby thought we were smoking, so we got out and Stan kicked the door in.
Sounds about right. Tell us a little about
Lake Trout
.
Lake Trout
is a Baltimore video we’re working on that should be out in the summer. Due to the lack of filmers in this city, I decided to get a camera a while back and just do our own video. Will Stackus just bought another VX so we’ve all been learning how to film each other. It has been fun. There should be parts from Spivey, Teta, Bryan, Vana, Brian Powderly, Will Stackus, and myself.
Any parting words?
Thanks to you and Alex Reyes for doing this. Thanks to Tim and Mal, Mr. Scumco, the Fuck Yinz crew, the Bohtz boys, and all the homies in D.C.

================================================================================

Brian, what you up to right
now? What’s popping?
Chilling, eating eggs and a bagel at like 7:23 at night.
Sounds like a good meal. Breakfast for dinner. So where are you from
?
I’m from Westfield, New Jersey, a town kind of near Newark.
Did you grow up skating New Jersey a lot?
Yeah, pretty much just Jersey around the streets and then go to New York on the weekends, or Philly.
You still living in Jersey? Or you moved out?
Nah, I moved out during the summer, I think it was like July. I moved in with my friends Harry, Chris, and Keith. It’s been sick living in Philly.
So now that we know you’ve been out in Philly and you’ve been skating New York growing up. Being from Jersey, where would you choose: NYC or Philly?
And don’t be scared cause I’m interviewing you.
Philly a hundred percent in my opinion. I don’t know. I just like
it better. I like how everyone’s just always around each other. I mean, there are different groups, but it’s mainly just like everybody’s one. I see everybody every day I go out skating. It’s not scattered, I guess.
What’s your daily routine around here, now that you out in Philly living on your own?
Wake up, get a bagel, probably end up skating to Muni or Paines, and meet up with everybody then just going out and trying to get clips in the streets. That’s pretty much it. And then get into some shenanigans during the nighttime.
You working on anything right now?
I don’t know really what it’s going to go towards right now, but I definitely have a bunch of stuff saved up. So hopefully something comes out soon. We’ll see though.
Who have you been filming with?
My roommate Harry Bergenfield. He’s the homie. I’ve actually only known him for like less than a year, but we just kinda started stacking clips and then eventually we just ended up moving in together. I love filming with Harry. It’s all so natural. Just go out and skate. Whatever we can come home with, it’s all good.
So let’s take it back a little bit. What was your first board and your first video?
My first board was a Flip. I had pink trucks. I don’t know what kind of trucks they were. And then I had some OG Spitfire wheels. I remember that’s my first board for sure. My first video was… I mean I used to watch shit on like Havoc TV, on like cable you could go and watch random videos.
Did you ever watch the Jamal Havoc TV stuff of him skating around
Maybe I did, I don’t remember, it was so long ago, but my first actual skate video was
Ride the Sky
, Fallen. That shit was fire. I would watch that shit religiously.
I feel that. Chris Cole wristbands and all that, let’s go. You still watching  Zero and Fallen videos and riding Flip boards? I know you out here doing your thing. Who throwin you product nowadays? Who you riding for?
Well Converse for shoes. They have been really hooking it up. It’s been so sick. They’ve been sending me a bunch of shoes. That’s been great. Thanks for that. I just recently started getting flowed boards from Hockey, so we’re just gonna see what’s good with that. That’s pretty much it. I also skate for OJ wheels, Mob grip, Bronson, Travel skateshop, and that’s it.
What’s next for you? What you
want out of everything. What are
your goals in life?
I don’t know, to be able to put stuff out that I’m super hyped on and just keep skating with everybody around Philly. Try to go harder.
Up the ante every day. If you had to choose a new favorite video now that you’re not watching
Ride the Sky
every day, no more. What would it be?
That’s hard. My favorite video currently was that new FA video that came out. I watched that a couple of times. That shit got me fired up.
I talked to some of your homies
from Jersey, people that saw you grow up and they told me to ask you about how high school was for you.
Oh my god, dude. I was such a shithead in high school. I would just leave school to go to the city. I basically got kicked out because I was just refusing to go. They ended up putting me in this program called bridge, which was like the lowest of the low program. I don’t know. I was just so bad at school. I just like, couldn’t do homework and shit.
What were you out doing? Skating? Macking?
Yeah I was out skating. I mean a little bit of both to be honest, but mostly out skating.
Also from what I’m hearing is that you were dummy good when you were a little kid. So tell me about your youth. How was skating
as a little kid? Like what was that
whole scene for you coming up?
I don’t even remember that’s so long ago, but yeah, I’ve been skating for forever. Pretty much just used to skate the skatepark down the street from my house. I would just be there every day. And my homies from back home, the majority of them are way older than me, so maybe that just made me progress faster or something. The older homies would just drive me around and we’d just skate everywhere.
One oddball question. What’s your
favorite food?
Yo I just had some chicken and waffles today. That was so gas.
But my favorite meal… I mean Thanksgiving is coming up and I love turkey and stuffing. Probably just the Thanksgiving meal. You know, that’s gas. I can’t wait for that.
Alright get this man turkey if you see him. He’s a nice guy. You got any shout outs?
Shoutout Travel skateshop, all the homies back home, my mom. I don’t know everybody.

================================================================================

How long did you live in Philly?
I moved there when I was 18 so that was 2004 and I left in 2012 so 8 years total.
Why did you decide to move to NY?
Part of it was my girlfriend is going to grad school here so I moved up with her. But I had always wanted to live in NY at some point in my life. I just knew that from visiting.
What differences have you noticed between Philly and NYC?
There are so many things that I really love about New York and so many things that I really miss about Philly. I love the energy and motivation of people, like everyone hustling, really trying to get somewhere and everyone just seems motivated to make it happen up here. Things I find off putting are just the whole culture of wealth, and the attitude of people that think they’re cool just because they live in the city. I find that people are really selfish around here, I think the fact that everyone’s motivated and trying to make things happen also comes with people being really self centered sometimes cause they’re so focused on where they’re going. And then for sure not having the same skate scene is definitely a big thing for me, not having FDR and the warehouse to just meet up with people. It’s just a lot more divided out here. I definitely miss the park so much. It’s just easier to get by in Philly, you don’t have to work so crazy, things are more affordable, there’s less bureaucracy, less undercover cops watching you, you can find abandoned shit…
How did the FDR book happen?
My friend Nick Orso approached me and my other friend Scott Kmiec about trying to do the project, he had a publisher lined up. So I reached out to everyone I knew, every photographer who had local photos of the park. I sent them something like “hey we don’t have any money but were making this project would you be down to contribute” and I got an insane amount of things from all kinds of people, from California, New York, other countries and stuff. Then we basically just whittled it down over the course of three years, and laid it out. It was a lot of work. I don’t think I realized how much I was getting my self into at first.
Any good FDR stories?
Two stories that I like both take place right by the miniramp. They’re not even mine but I’ll tell ”˜em. A homie went to take a piss in the woods right by the miniramp and they almost didn’t notice, but they saw at the last minute someone had dug like a 8-10 foot hole in the woods and they lightly covered it with leaves. It was basically like a pit, 3 foot in diameter, 10 feet deep and if you had fallen into the pit, you wouldn’t have been able to climb out. It was like a trap or something. So random. No idea who did that or why. And the other is, once my friends were skating the mini ramp and they saw these two bums getting into a fight, screaming at each other, hitting each other. Then they disappeared off into the woods. They didn’t really think much of it, then like twenty minutes later one of the bums came out the woods like fully covered in blood. They were like, whoa that’s gnarly I wonder what happened? Then the next day cops were down at the park and they said they pulled a body out of the woods. They’d somehow figured out that one dude had killed someone else in the woods, homeless dudes.
Fav FDR locs?
Of all time? I’ll give props to Steve Faas, Delaware Josh, Delaware Adam, Smiling Ryan, Acid Mike, everybody with good nicknames, all the 50 year olds still ripping, Andrew Clark holding it down. Willy Akers, there’s lots man.
How long did you live in AZ?
Right after I graduated college I moved out there for six months. I lived with one of my best friends Dave. That was like a high point in my life in terms of having fun everyday, not having responsibilities, skating, meeting new people, and shooting photos, but I made so little money. It was when the economy really tanked. I was looking for work, especially as a photographer’s assistant and stuff, I tried so hard to find work and I couldn’t find anything. I pretty much dumpster dove all my food. I sold my plasma, like your blood you know, for 35 bucks a pop, twice a week and we ate out of the trash. I dug ditches a couple days. I would do odd jobs on Craigslist and stuff. That’s pretty much how I survived, but it was sick. It was a good experience.
When did you go to Skatopia?
Skatopia was the first road trip I ever went on. The first time I went was 2004 with my friend Delaware Josh. He showed me the ropes of traveling and took me on my first trips, took me across country. So I went there in 2004, then again the next summer, then one more time, so yea maybe three or four times while I was in college then I didn’t go back for a long time cause I was kinda like fuck that place, those dudes suck. It’s just a weird scene. But I went back recently last spring with Akers, and Dillon Constantine, Jersey Drew, a big crew of people, and it was really sick. So I take it all back. That place is still rad.
What’s it like? What was your issue with it?
I mean back in the day it was just way gnarlier, just dudes doing all kinds of cocaine, running cars straight through where everybody was sleeping, shooting fireworks straight at people. It was just raw, I think it’s calmed down a little bit now especially since Bruce Martin, who runs the place, he had a pretty major accident. It was a lot of egos, just people thinking they were cool, and vibing people out if they didn’t like the look of ”˜em or whatever, same thing like we were talking about in New York. But yea I’d say Skatopia is awesome. Everybody should see it at one point, you can do whatever you want.
How many photos you take a day?
I feel like I shoot most of my stuff when I’m on trips. I feel more inspired to shoot things when I’m traveling, and when I’m traveling I try to shoot a roll a film a day. It’s not that much but if I go away for two weeks I want to come back with 15 rolls of film. It’s not really about quantity, if I go away on a trip I’d like to come home with at least one thing that I really like. If I can get one really good photo, then I’m stoked. I know it sounds crazy like you drive six thousand miles or whatever to try to get one photo but if I come home with one thing that I really think is good, then it was a good trip for me.
Have you ever been arrested?
The last time I got a ticket for skating or even yelled at by the cops, was when I was 13 years old. I saw some cops pull a gun on a kid for skating Love, and ran away with my friend. I wasn’t even skating. I had broken my board, and got a ticket even though I had a broken board and we were blocks away. I fought it with my mom. I was like a 13 year old kid. It was a crazy experience. But dude I never get in trouble with cops. One thing I wish I knew when I was little is don’t run, don’t act guilty, don’t give them a reason to think you knew you were doing something wrong. Like the other day me and Andrew Wilson and some of his roommates were pouring some cement up to this Jersey barrier in Bushwick. We’re just mixing, troweling it, trying to do it pretty quick but were not really being sketchy about it, and this cop rolls up. I had my back to the street troweling, and they’re like “Hey what’re you doing?” I just totally played calm and was like “Oh hey what’s up I’m just building something to skate”, and they just looked at me so crazy like “You’re building something to skate?” “yea, you know, we’ve been skating this barrier so I figured we’d just put a little cement up to it make it a little easier” the one was so bummed. I could tell he wanted to write us tickets. He’s like “Are you serious you’re just gonna build some stuff on someone else’s property” and the other cop that was in the drivers seat was like,“Alright, carry on, see you guys later” and he hit the gas and they bailed. I know if I had hesitated or not been confident they would have fucked us over but if you just pretend you’re doing something right, nobody will mess with you.

================================================================================

Photos by Thomas Goldman. Interview by Zach Moeller.
How’re you doing?
Doing good. Worked this morning pretty early, got up at like 7, got off around 3 and just chilled. Not much to do in this snow.
What do you do for work?
I’ve been working for this moving company called “Lou Moves You,” it’s a bunch of skateboarders. The dude Lou is sick, he runs the company. I work with Matt Velez, Brendan Carroll , a bunch of dudes who skate, so it’s fun.
Do you guys get off work and skate together?
Yeah. Sometimes we’ll park the vans over by Cooper Park, so that’s tight It’s sick driving around to random spots and finding stuff too.
Run us through a day in the life.
I haven’t really been able to skate the last week or so just because of the wether. A lot of times I’ll get off work pretty early and I’ll go skate after that if not too shitty outside. I’m kind of taking it easy these days, especially at night. Not going out as much.
Being responsible, you’re like a grown man.
Ben Potter: Nah dude, not partying will keep his knees good. He’ll be skating till he’s 45.
Ha, I’m not that responsible.
Where are you from
originally?
I’m from Richmond, VA. I grew up on the north side, about a five minute drive from downtown. It was in the city, but in a nice quiet neighborhood.
Where’d the nickname Danish come from?
Dude, everyone asks me that but there’s no story behind it. My friend Billy was just saying my name funny and it just turned into Danish. Out of all the nicknames that’s the one that stuck.
How’d you start skating with the Bust Crew guys?
A bunch of friends who are closer to my age starting skating together, our little Inbred crew, and then some time in high school we started skating with older guys and going to their house. They started showing us around and kind of took us under. We started going on trips and filming with them, and the two crews sort of meshed into one.
Tell us about the Inbred Boys.
Sorta started with my friend Max Matoon making videos, and people started making sick graphics like my friend Rusty. It’s kind of slowed down now, but Max is working another video. It’s probably less than 50% skating and mostly just fucked up footage that he films in the streets. They’re still doing shit, it’ll be good.
Who’s Cousin Dylan?
Cousin Dylan is the shit, he’s the best. He’s my friend Cooper’s cousin, he lived with us for a long time. He was born on a Grateful Dead tour and his parents never took him to a hospital or anything, so he doesn’t have a birth certificate or social security number. He basically didn’t exist. It actually made things hard for him, being 25 and not being able to get a job or anything. He actually just went on a cross country trip to San Francisco where he’s from to finally get his birth certificate. Now Cousin Dylan is a real person.
Did you live in the infamous Dust House?
Yeah. There were so many people in and out of here. When I was living there it was me, Ty Beall, Max, Erich Bielefeldt, Will Rosenstock, Rusty, Dave English, Cooper, John Devine, Jon Rowe and his girlfriend, and a bunch of other people too.
Best story from living there?
Well it got raided, I think Ty might have talked about this in his interview, but it was fucked.
Wait, what?
Yeah I had gone to the grocery store down the street for five minutes, came back and there was undercover cops climbing over our fence and coming up the front steps, so I just said “fuck” and sat on the ledge across the street and watched. All our friends were on the couch, shirtless with no AC, and the cops bust in with their guns out and shit like, “you know why we’re here?” and everybody had no clue because it could have been so many things. They walked straight to the bathroom and grabbed this cardboard cutout of a cop that Ty had stolen from the hospital, and there’s a knife sticking out of his head and a dildo out of his pants. The cop pulled the dildo out with no gloves and was like, “really? You think this is funny? This man has a family!” Like the cutout was real person or something. They searched the house but did a really bad job because it was so messy, so only Ty got in trouble for that one.
What happened at that spot across from Kanawha in downtown Richmond?
They built this new building with these perfect ledges out front and we were out skating it one night. It’s ironic because I was the only one skating into the street and not skating/destroying the ledge, but the cops came so everyone skated off. I started walking over to my car but I was the one that ended up getting caught. They took me inside and arrested me, charging me with a felony for skating it. They asked me the names of everyone else, but I wasn’t about to rat everyone out, so I ended up having to get a lawyer and go to court, pay a fine, do some community service.
Everything cool with that now?
Yeah it got dropped, everything’s cool now.
Getting hooked up by anyone these days?
Yeah, I get boards from Quasi and shoes from Adidas, they’re sick.
What made you want to move to New York?
Man I don’t know, a few things. I broke my ankle and got surgery last winter, and was out for about six months. I wanted a change of scenery when I could skate again. My girlfriend and I had broken up so I wanted to go somewhere, and in the Dust House everyone was leaving, meaning I wouldn’t have a house soon. At first I thought I was moving up for the summer, but ended up staying. I’ve been trying to go out filming with Paul Young lately, and skating with a lot of dudes from Richmond who are up here.
What do you miss most about Richmond?
No traffic, and mostly being able to have fires. We used to have a fire in the backyard of Dust House every night. Also having all my friends there.
Your part in Gospel was gnarly. That front crook down Blubba was ridiculous. Was there a trick that stuck out as your favorite?
Damn, thank you. I’m trying to think. I guess to me that one didn’t feel like the one I had to work the hardest for because I didn’t really think about it before we went, it was just kinda like, “oh shit! It worked,” but there were definitely some other ones I thought about a lot and put a lot of work into. There was one where I went down into this skinny bank and grinded this rail that was in Baltimore. We had to rip the rail out of the ground and bondo it before going back another day to skate it, chip the bondo out, and put the rail back in. That one took two trips and a little bit of work.
Best and worst bar in Richmond? I might judge you a bit for this one.
Haha, the ones I would go to the most , I don’t know if they’re the best, but there’s this bar Ipanema right down the street from Dust House we’d go to.
You about that karaoke night?
Hahahaha no on karaoke night, fuck that. Oh! You know what bar is sick is Babe’s, it’s kinda like a lesbian bar with $1 beers and pool tables. They have a karaoke night, but no one’s in there, so it’s just like one person singing to two people, so it’s pretty funny.
Worst bar?
Dude, I went to this bar that opened up right before I came here called City Beach that was beach-themed with neon walls. It was so weird, but also sick because it was so bad. That was definitely one of the worst bars I’ve been to. Shout out to City Beach.
Speaking of shout outs, do you have any? Let’s wrap this thing up.
Shout out to everyone in Richmond, Bust Crew, Inbred.
Inbred’s the shit.
Hell yeah, let’s close it out with that, Inbred’s the shit.

================================================================================

What are you up to today? About to go skate?
I’m just at my crib right now resting. Was going to go get a haircut and then go meet up with Dustin later to skate.
Where do you get your haircut?
I’m in Montreal, so I’ve never gotten my haircut here. I usually go to a West Indian or Jamaican barber, but there’s a shop down the street that looks pretty valid, so I’m gonna go.
Hopefully, they don’t fuck you up. Where are you from?
I live in Toronto, Ontario. It’s in Canada, but my family is from Jamaica, though.
Have you been to Jamaica? You got family there still?
Yeah, last summer I was there for two weeks, and I try to go as much as I can. My family lives in St. Anne, which is Bob Marley’s area and where his memorial is. It’s really natural. Good energy and good vibes.
You were in New York recently right?
Yeah I was with Baker, just hanging out, and we also went to the Poconos. We went to some cabin to do a lookbook for Alltimers, so I was out there doing some modeling. It was sick.
Do you come to America a lot?
I try to. I don’t mind staying in Ontario, or Canada at all. But for a lot of these trips with Alltimers they want to be in America for sure. So this year I went to a lot of states for the first time. Canada is really big, like if I were to drive from Toronto to Montreal, it would be like six hours. And there’s no way I’m driving to Vancouver, it would take like two days. America is tight because you can just go all over in a couple hours.
Is there anything you miss from Canada when you’re in America for awhile?
I get kind of intimidated having no healthcare there. I mean Toronto is a very diverse city, there’s so much different food you can try, and different spots that are amazing and multicultural. But New York has everything Toronto has to offer times ten. It’s just way bigger and I always try to travel with an open mind so I don’t miss things too much. I can be out of Canada for a long time.
Where else have you been that was sick besides Jamaica and America?
We did an Alltimers trip to Mexico City, which was amazing. But my favorite would have to be Athens. The food was amazing, we went in the winter so it was nice cool weather, sweater at night, the city is always alive and everyone is doing something day and night. I loved that place. I want to try going to Costa Rica and go see some monkeys and alligators though.
Do you take photos or film?
I used to shoot photos a lot actually. I used to live in a hood in Toronto called Jamestown in Rexdale, but my mom really wanted to get out of there for us and our future. So we moved really far outside of the city to Mississauga for ten years. It’s deep in the sticks, but still the same shit you know, government housing. So I was really trying to just do something because when I started skating, all my friends skated too. But eventually they all got caught up in gang shit, and whatnot, and stopped. Around that time people started rapping around me too, but we would always film skate videos and shit. I used a little Canon t3i with a fisheye and my friend Kirk Harriot had a VX that he taught me how to use. Then I started filming music videos with my friends who were rapping, got a better camera, then just kind of moved up. I started shooting photos for rappers around me and stuff, slowed the skating down like three years ago, but then I kind of just put the photo stuff to the side and started skating more. Photos and videos have always been something I fucked around with though, I’m just always taking a picture with anything.
You mess with film or mostly just digital?
I mean films cool, it’s really sick. The best movies and the best photos are all done on film, but it’s just so expensive. Digital is really tech and all, but for where I was and what I was doing it made sense. Because I was trying to go corporate and get good gigs or whatever. But film is another world that I respect, and I’ll dabble, but I can’t claim it. And shit, at this point you can just slap on a Portra 400 filter, and it’ll look chill.
Which do you like more? Filming for parts and sitting on footage, or just doing things and putting them right on Instagram?
Take time. The thing is, the way I grew up skating was for parts. For as long as I can remember we just had the camera that all the friends can use to film, we go out on skate missions, get footage, someone else would edit it, and we’d all put our little parts together. As soon as I stopped doing that, I felt like I stopped progressing. I liked filming a trick and then just kind of forgetting about it. I liked that whole process, but looking at Instagram, I just get so unmotivated. If anything, I’ve been trying to post on instagram, like at skateparks, since there’s so much you can do. But street right to Instagram? That’s lame, just film a part for sure.
Do you spend a lot of time on the internet?
Too much. I try to not follow celebrities and shit, I don’t use Twitter or anything. I’m mostly just on Instagram and Tumblr looking at photos and cool stuff like cars and what not. I kind of just follow a bunch of car pages, so I’m mostly just watching a car review or some shit so it’s not too bad. I’m learning something.
Do you have a car right now?
No. In Canada the insurance for me since I’m under 25 is like $400 a month, and my rent is already too high living in the city, so I just couldn’t afford it. Until I figure out real money I’m just window shopping.
What do you do in the winter? Can you skate?
I try to work, get a freelance photography job here and there. PA stuff so I can soak up some knowledge, because down the line I do want to get into that world and the film industry eventually. Try to stay active and go to the gym once in a while. There is a dope indoor skatepark where I used to live, it’s called CJ’s, actually it’s pretty lame. Not talking shit here, the park is okay, but it’s just crazy because there’s so many kids there. You could be trying something and potentially land right on a kid with a scooter. But the winter is pretty depressing otherwise. I’ll binge watch anime episodes, or play games.
What video games you play?
Apex Legends
on Xbox. I think I play every single day, and it’s free too.
Forza
so I can customize some cars. Right now I’m playing
Zelda
on the Nintendo Switch, it’s so tight.
Are you hyped weed is legal in Canada now?
I don’t smoke too much. I try not to, but yeah. It’s crazy to me that it’s legal now because I’ve seen so many homies get locked up for it and it’s sad because they ruined a bunch of people’s lives for something that’s now completely legal. It’s really good that in the future kids don’t have to go through that shit, and worry so much about hiding their weed, that’s lame. Selling it is one thing, but just a couple grams shouldn’t make you feel sketched.
Do you think being a Canadian skater it’s harder to get shine?
Oh yeah. I was just talking about this the other day. I’ve seen people who for sure deserve more shine. I’m 21, and when I was 15, the guys who were 21 were definitely better than me now, but now they’re just working in trades welding or doing plumbing. They should have had a career but they just got no light on them in their prime, which sucks because they had to pave the way for kids like me. They showed me what to do and how to fix spots before I even knew what bondo was. They made it skateable in Toronto and they got no light. Shout out Kirk Harriot because he literally put me on to everything, and I don’t think he got the shine he deserved. There’s a lot more of them too, but he was dope.
How did you first get hooked up for skating?
I kind of never really cared about sponsors too much. All I ever really wanted was a board and a discount for some shit. There wasn’t any skateshops near enough to me, and my mom doesn’t drive, so when I was 13 I wasn’t gonna hop on the bus for an hour or two. The closest one was West 49, which is just like a Canadian chain store that was kind of a skate store. There might have been like 500 of them at one time. They’d have a little flow program where there would be four kids from the area on the team for each store and they’d get 40% off. It was a dope program because there’s only a couple core shops in Canada, and being a kid like me you don’t really have too much so that’s the perfect deal. That was my first sponsor. In high school they were just hooking me up with shoes and boards, so that was really dope.
Got any last words or shoutouts?
Shoutout everyone in Toronto, Jivcoff, Jacob Bouleo, shoutout Jesse Williams, fucking Kirk Harriot, Tatum Dorier, Zach Baker, Pryce Holmes, shoutout the whole Alltimers team, Vans Canada, fucking Gio Vaca GOAT. Shoutout Bob, I don’t know much love to everyone.

================================================================================

Are you ever going to work at Woodward again?
Yeah I’m sure I’ll make my way there for many summers to come.
Why didn’t you wanna work at Woodward this year?
Honestly I was just kinda burnt out on it I had been there all summer for the past 3 summers. I just wanted to take a break from it this summer and do some different shit.
Where are you from?
I’m from a small town in western Mass called Monson, right outside Springfield.
Who do you live with?
I kinda bounce back and forth from my mom’s place and my chick’s place.
Best camera?
My iPhone.
Favorite skate spot on the East Coast?
Just recently went to Baltimore for the first time and in my opinion they had some of the sickest spots on the East Coast.
How old are you?
21 years old.
How did you hear about
Skate Jawn?
I first heard about it from the homies up at UMASS Amherst, then after checkin it out I realized a bunch of Woodward homies were down.
You in school?
Nah college drop out.
Gone on any trips this summer?
Yeah I go out to Boston a lot, it’s only an hour from me, NYC is like 2.5 so I’ve been there a few times. One weekend I went up to Albany. I also went to Baltimore and Philly a few weeks ago that was definitely the best trip of the summer.
What are your plans for the rest of the year?
I’m just trying to skate as much as I can, go on some more trips, and stack as much paper as possible.
Favorite video part?
Ricky Oyola EE3.
Favorite website besides magnoliascreet.blogspot.com?
www.thrashermagazine.com
Do you ever get pussy?
Whenever I want, I got a girlfriend haha.
R you sponsored?
I ride for Theory skate shop, and the cons rep Chase hooks me up with shoes.
Do you smoke?
Ganja, yes. Tobacco, only when in spliffs.
Favorite beer?
Blue Moon is my shit.
Who’s your least favorite skater?
I’d have to go with Steve Berra for obvious reasons.
Which is better stoning in the morning or at night?
Stoning all day.
Why does Philly suck so much?
It doesn’t!

================================================================================

words and photos by Sean Bendon
Watch the interview above or read it and check out the photos below.
I’m gonna start this off with a quote from one of your songs “No matter how tall it is, I’m dropping in”
Bruh, true. Doesn’t matter how tall it is. Did you just listen to that? Wow, you’re paying attention. That’s for any skatepark, any ramp, life, whatever. Fuck it, just drop in, you know what it is! It’s also just a part of not being scared. I love you Sean, I’m glad you listened to that shit. No matter how tall it is you should drop in. You’ll get to flat eventually.
I saw you recently put out some music online, how has stepping into that world been? Can you draw any similarities between making music and skating?
I feel like one always supplements the other for me. If I’m tired from skating, I wanna go make tracks. I’ve been making tracks forever. Then I finally plugged in the mic and started singing into it. With the autotune it was freeing, and I just got super into it. It’s like when I first got into skating, now there’s a tiny pressure to film, do this, that, and the other, but no one’s listening to my music. Besides you, shoutout! So it’s like I can do, say, make it sound however, it’s really freeing. It’s like that OG skate feel. There’s no pressure for me. I’ll put out a track and it’ll get 13 views and I’m like, sick I’ll put out another.
It changes your motivation, knowing no one is paying attention gives you freedom to do more.
There’s the freedom part of it, but also just like in both instances, I’m still doing the shit I wanna do on the board. What I’m skating is how I wanna be skating but after the fun part of finding the spot and filming, then you think about people perceiving it. But with music, I don’t think about people perceiving it too much cause there are less eyes on it. With the autotune it’s hella freeing, and it’s a little bit less me. It’s one hundred percent me but since there’s some type of veil of effects, delays, autotune – all that type of shit, it’s not being one hundred percent perceived as me so it’s a little easier to throw it out there. I don’t feel comfortable putting just any skate clip in a part, but just about any track I make, I’ll post it. With music, I like seeing it as a catalog.
I know you were jamming a bit with
Genny, have you taken any influence from him? I see some similarities in your music.
The shit that you’re into, you’ll attract. I was listening to a lot of Genny and 454 before I was even making the type of music I am now or even playing music with Genny. First seeing him with the autotuner and him keying it was dope. I love seeing how he interacts with his own music versus when he’s in a group. It’s the same as skating, you see homies that are better than you at doing something or have more developed ideas and then you’re inspired to find what you want to develop. But for sure Genny on the production side. I love how he chops up samples.
How was growing up in Midland, Texas? Did it shape your approach to skating?
It had to, even if I didn’t want it to. West Texas is alright, the people there are good. It’s such a bubble. Four hours from Dallas, and five hours from Austin. It was only founded because there was oil there, so you’re only gonna be there if you work in the oil field and if you have any other job it’s totally supplemented by the oil field. My brother has an oil job, my dad does managerial shit in the oil industry. It’s all oil barons basically. In terms of skating there, the scene was kinda lit in the early 2000s. There’s this guy named (Kris) Stansbery and he was around for that little golden era of Midland skating, but then right when I got into skating it died and no one was going to the park. For years and years, it was just me and a couple of homies, trying to go downtown, trying to find spots so bad. My first existential crisis was in 8th grade like “We ain’t got no cars, we don’t support ourselves, we got no spots, all we can do is skate the park.” I love the homies that I grew up skating with though. Shoutout Kris, Nathan, and Blake. All of them ended up being music related friendships later on. If I didn’t skate I don’t know what in the world I would have been doing in West Texas.
So how did you get out
of West Texas?
From Midland I moved to the Dallas area, technically Arlington, and I was going to school there. My mom wanted me to do school to get out of Midland. I was looking at Austin but I didn’t really like the vibe there, maybe cause I was judgmental and younger. I eventually moved to Austin a year later. That’s when I met Nico, Pankus, Travis, and Paul Kim, shout out Paul Kim. He rented me a dope little living room set up. I got to skate so much with Nico and all of them and I got hyped on street skating and filming cause I’d never really filmed.
Best skater from West Texas?
Oh good question. West Texas is so wide… I think Darrell Stanton is from Lubbock, I think that’s considered West Texas. I did a presentation in 7th grade on that guy. A slideshow with some dope photos of him. But that’s off the cuff, maybe from Midland the homie Stansberry I was talking about.
I noticed you and the Texas homies
are always rocking the massive LATENITESTARS sticker on your boards, is that a crew? A brand?
You know what it is mane. It’s crew. I like to look at it like the Screwed Up Click. It’s not just rappers, it’s all these artists that came together and no one knows exactly what the roster is. But how it originally started was Trung doing his graff thing. He got a dope graff crew then he started doing his skate thing. It’s Zak (Anders) too, a lot of the art and the mind behind it. It morphed itself and then they made a board sticker that’s hilarious. It looks so dope, I want it on every board. I don’t think anyone wants to really define it cause it gets annoying and people ask when boards are coming and then it’s a board brand.
In this day and age
it feels like every crew gets branded or packaged.
I feel like naturally we’re getting packaged, but we shine brighter together bro. We skate together, we all hang out, we all work, we’re doing it cause we fuck with it even when it’s hard. Honestly just a good group of dudes, I can talk to them about shit, real dogs. They’re all a little older than me too. It’s always been good with those homies. I’m so glad I got to morph into the crew.
You just got back from an ASICS trip with all those homies, how did that go?
The trip was epic. Basically, just them reaching out to shops. Saying what’s up, what the vibe of the brand is, trying to show their ethos, and all that. Got to meet Rob Sissi and Kaspar. It seems like they want everybody to be skating together and know each other. There was a day we went out skating as a huge crew and Mr. Chase (Walker) pulled up filming everybody all day like a beast, on the hottest day too. We definitely got some stuff in the works and right now we’re workin on a video that we want to be an Asics video, but it’s always gonna be a Latenitestars video, it’s always gonna be a Chase video. Seems like they’re down to let us do what we wanna do and we just wanna go out and keep skating and traveling.
Does traveling stress you out?
Dude I think it does, you’re like, “I gotta get what I can get while I’m here.” I might just like being home. So when I get out I can be ornery because I’m out of place. I’m trying to get better with it, I hope the dawgs see me trying to get better with it.
You’re working on yourself.
I’m trying. Trying and failing but trying. My shorty told me that’s progress. Shit gets better. I’m excited for the next trip and to put into practice what I’ve learned.
Do you have any upcoming goals or plans?
Be less hard on myself. That’s with life. With skating, it’s also to be less hard on myself because I’ll get so
mad and so angry because I’ll have such expectations that I set forth. Me and skating have been tugging
and pulling, ebbing and flowing, so that’s a part of it. In terms of actual clippage, trying to push myself and not let the fear take over, cause that shit’s real, and skating is scary sometimes. With music, I wanna put out some more projects. I wanna do a project that’s way more obvious hip hop and then do a project with no drums or samples. In general not being so hard on yourself is a big one. It can get dark, you gotta love yourself, all the cliche shit is kinda true.
Shoutouts?
Shout out to my moms, she’s been helping me a lot lately… And my whole life haha. Fuck it that’s it, shoutout my moms. I love my moms, I miss you.

================================================================================

Interview by Jacob Tyler Mumford
Photos by Bradford Bishop
How long have you been skating in Milwaukee? And tell me about some of your sponsors.
Years skating would be 24. Sponsors are Dogghouse Hardware, Beer City Skateboards and I’d like to think Sky High skate shop, who knows? Mystery team.
You’re on the team.
That’s it then. You guys help me out. Much love.
Is skateboarding still cool?
I think the best argument is that it never was. Always fun. Never Cool.
What’s it really like being a Midwestern skateboarder? What are some of the ugly parts, and how does it shape your skating?
I think the ugliest part would be the spots, there’s always something wrong with them. Especially when you’ve traveled and seen beautiful spots, it’s hard to come home to the shitty ones. But it’s also one of the best parts about it. I feel like it changes your skating for the better too. You’re more willing to try and skate stuff, and get creative, even if it sucks.
How did you keep the stoke alive for skating during periods of injury or recovery?
It was challenging. There’s an insane amount of media, so it’s easy to watch stuff and get sparked. Setting up a nice cruiser for recovery helped a lot, just enjoying riding again. Also shooting photos and just being at the session around the homies kept me sane.
Did it change your approach to skating, having those kind of injuries that took you out?
It definitely made me a little more timid at first. But it also got me excited to come back and try stuff. It’s fun to challenge yourself, relearn tricks, achieve small goals and all that.
You kind of get a chance or opportunity to do that again.
Yeah, there’s a lot more love again. Appreciating a slappy noseslide, instead of getting in my head about what I think I should be doing. Simply doing what feels good.
What’s the wackiest falling asleep story you have?
I’m not a huge baseball fan, but I like going to games every once in a while. We went to a game and I may have tailgated a little too hard. The Brewers won in the ninth inning with a grand slam home run. Pretty much the coolest way to win a game, and I was dead asleep in the stands the whole time, as the entire stadium cheered around me.
Why do you think bongs are the superior weed smoking device?
The filtration is key, flavor is also important.
What never fails to get you hyped to skate?
My friends, for sure.
What’s your advice to someone just starting to skate?
I would say stick to what’s fun and be patient.
What was the key takeaway from the intimate conversation you had with an orchid flower on a heroic dose of mushrooms?
That things and people in my life appreciated me and that I was very lucky. It felt like a very real moment of karma. I was putting energy into keeping this thing alive and then it felt like I got that love back from said orchid.
It’s still alive now?
It’s not flowering right now, but it’s alive.
What is the importance of style in skateboarding?
Style is important because it’s what makes skateboarding artistic. Everybody can kickflip, but there are a few top ones, and whoever has yours is probably sick, but someone else may have a different favorite one. It’s the fact that it’s subjective that makes skateboarding and skate styles so unique. As for me and my style, I try my best not to think about any of that shit. I’ve never really been good enough to where I could control my style. I can’t keep my arms from doing weird shit. I’m just worried about the skating part.
Trend watch 2024. What’s next? And what’s out for good?
Oh, the next trend. Um, hopefully not skating. Hopefully a bunch of people just quit. More non-skate related sponsors, that’s my prediction.
What’s not cool anymore?
I’m over the ironic NASCAR hats or just like the corny gas station beanies with flames.
What’s a trend that you unironically fuck with?
I’m stoked that pants got a little bigger. I don’t need the big boys, but I like baggier pants.
What’s the trend that you wish would come back, that hasn’t yet?
People making edits with their friends, versus their own skatepark edit, or taking their footage out of videos and posting just their shit. I’m guilty of that stuff too but the fun you have with your friends shows through in those homie edits.
Who are the Milwaukee skaters everyone should know about?
Max Murphy, Sean Hanley, Vince Stranc & Taylor Lalk. The scene is dope in general though. Big love to everybody!
Any other shout outs?
Fuck Yeah. Aaron Polansky, Bill Kashner at Cream City, Pat Forester, John McGuire, Jon Rock and Mike Beer, all the ones that showed us the way. Bradford Bishop, Drew Rickaby, Josh Ellis of wiskate.com, Eric Risser, Gabe Chan, Pat Forester, Jacob Tyler Mumford, Payne Counihan, Pat Murphy x2, Esta Baby, The Mayor, and Mikey Big Shits. If I missed you, I still love you.

================================================================================

Did you know Nas once unfolded the scroll to plant seeds that would later stampede the globe?
Yup, that was before the kid got his chipped tooth fixed.
Has he succeeded? 2020 is pretty gnarly. So far. How’s your year going?
Not too bad. Been out of work since the whole quarantine. So a lot more time to skate. This year has definitely been gnarly though. Even The Undertaker is over it.
Yeah, for sure. I’m gonna need him to Tombstone Piledrive this whole entire year into the casket.
It’s not all bad, though. Rumor has it you’re working on a new video. Can you give us a taste of what to expect?
Yeah, been in the works for awhile now. It’ll be like 50/50 Philly and Atlantic City. Basically just a video of friends who I skate with regularly.
Sick. You’ve directed and costarred in some legendary videos throughout the years. Some of them are in the vaults, locked up, offline. Is there a method to the madness? Will they ever see the light of day? The streets want to know. I’m asking for a friend.
Yeah, I have just have so many tapes, it’s kind of overwhelming. But I do plan on sorting them out and putting them up or making little edits. Definitely need to do it for my friends.
Hell yeah the streets will be happy to to hear that. How’d you start skateboarding?
I got into skating from my older brother, Joel. He would let me borrow his board and I just got hooked. He pretty much influenced everything I still do to this day.
Joel was the man. I remember he would shred the ramp in your backyard. I’d call him Keith Hufnagle and he’d call me Beetlejuice haha.
Do you have any favorite memories of Joel growing up?
Pretty much all the times we skated together are my favorite. Just building ghetto ramps and literally skating all day, everyday.
Shoutout to Joel! I remember you guys had a rap group called the Lunatics! Who would win in a horror core battle: Lunatics or Gravediggaz?
Haha man. I don’t know. Lunatics were on some other shit.
Haha can we get a bar or 2? The rap world needs it right now.
Nah, Psychotic Sasquatch is hibernating.
Haha I don’t wanna be out in the Boston crab, my bad. What’s some crazy memory you have of LOVE park? Roll the dice.
Besides the amazing skating. The one that’s coming to mind right now is when that bummed got maced and hit with a board in the face back in the day. You and me were both there. When the board hit him in the head, it was so loud, it like echoed throughout center city. Years later, it turns out Mulhern was actually there that day too but we didn’t know each other.
Yeah dude, that was such a crazy day. The head crack heard around the world. That was the most polarizing moment I’ve ever seen, between skateboarders and the love park residents.
We were really fortunate to grow up and skate Philly, NYC, and DC during their golden years. Could you tell us about the real MVP of those missions, your dad and my other dad?
Joe Potatoe. My dad was very supportive of us skating. When we were little kids, he’d drop us all off at skate spots and go do who knows what. I remember back in the undercover cop days at Love Park. He’d tell me not to wear bright colors, so that I wouldn’t stand out to the cops as much.
You, like myself, love NJ. What makes New Jersey a superior state?
Fred Gall, Jack Nicholson, King Kong Bundy, The Toxic Avenger, The lady who shot Andy Warhol. The list goes on…
You’ve been ripping lately with a new hashtag #nocolonstillrollin. You showed true ultimate Warrior type strength in coming back from a serious health issue. Looking back at how far you’ve come, what advice would present day you give to yourself when you felt your worst?
There’s not enough pages in this mag to really explain all the heath problems and surgeries I’ve gone through. I have an auto immune disease that has left me with no large intestines and an ostomy bag. So literally no colon still rollin. I wish I had good advice, I hope the worst of it is over, but it’s still a struggle everyday.
You’re on of my personal life heroes, so I’m rooting for you every day, gawd. Thank you for your time! Any final words before we end?
Make Mark Humienik pro.

================================================================================

I started seeing Franco downtown when he was 14. Instead of a 15 minute metro ride, he would drive his dads car downtown and valet park it at a restaurant up the street from Pulaski to be sure he didn’t catch any parking tickets. Then he got a Saturn twin cam, slapped some Perellis on it, and we barely ever saw him anymore.
Describe a typical day downtown.
There’s a hill that shoots you into the plaza, so you always have speed. We end up skating past a squad of paddy wagons and park (police) in numbers, some flick them off, a few little ones are nabbed. We regroup at the capitol, and with blunt smoke and beer cans, we keep it moving to bridge spot. Park cannot keep up because they are cocksuckers.
Wow. Who is the most underrated skateboarder in DC and why?
“Gnarly” Neal Wood. He is a top notch skater and filmer. He’ll film your line with his vx right after slamming.
Agreed. What made you move to New York, and what do you miss about D.C.?
I moved so I could be on my own. I miss everyone back home. Pulaski, my car, and the way the city looks.
Deep. Now I’m going to name something, and you tell me who does it better, N.Y. or D.C.
Spots.
D.C. seems to have more marble and space. Pulaski overrules any spot. N.Y. is more of an adventure with less of a bust. After skating, you’ll look like that dirty kid from Charlie Brown that never took a bath. Peanut.
You mean Pigpen? The show is Peanuts.
Yeah, Whatever.
Girls?
N.Y.
Yayo?
French Montana.
Public transportation?
N.Y. is fast, filthy, cheap, and runs all night. D.C. has carpet on the trains, and some of the stations look like a scene outta Star Wars.
Quality of life?
D.C. has a more southern feel, with less people rushing and bonking horns. The buildings have a Rome-like appeal. N.Y. has an artistic vibe, with dancing and music in the street and a lot more going on. The bums look like trills and the skate scene is pumpin! Oh and D.C. pretty much closes down by 2am on weekends. Tighten up, idiots!

================================================================================

Where you from, age, stance, favorite skate video?
From Hyannis, Massachusetts. I’m goofy and favorite skate video is
Fully Flared
.
What does life on Cape Cod entail?
Hanging around with homies. Also been playing FIFA 16 a lot. Got a FIFA tournament to win in 2 weeks lesgetit!
Been on any trips lately? Where?
Took a road trip to Montreal a few weeks ago.
Aight my g, so what’s the best thing that’s happened to you in 2015, and worst? Explain.
Best of 2015 I guess would getting affiliated with DGK and just being able to skate! Worst haha, definitely last Halloween…got headbutted in my front teeth and they fell right out. Got some dope fakes though.
Do you think global warming is really a thing?
I definitely believe in it. I’m no scientist but I think it’s pretty plausible. The signs are there for sure.
Who is your favorite vert skate and why?
Paul Savini OG legend.
Can you bmx? What tricks you got on a bike?
Biking is amazing. I’m not very good, but it’s fun as fuck. I got like some double peg grinds haha. I biked when I was like 8. I wanted to race!
What is your take on group chats? Explain.
When your squad is full of pro roasters feelings are gonna get hurt, and the homies might throw hands.
You ever cheated on a girl before, would you?
No never cheated but never really had a legitimate girlfriend yet ahaha.. We’ll see what happens. What’s up ladies.
What do you think about Street League? Would you compete? You down with Rob Dyrdek?
Street League is cool, I don’t watch it but it’s nice those dudes get fat checks I guess. I wanna see them skate the worst parks though, call it shit league. How do I get in touch with RD?
What does it mean to be a skateboarder in 2015? Where is the future of skating?
To be a skateboarder in 2015 means something different to everyone I think. I just like to skate, learn new shit, and get photos!

================================================================================

Where ya’ll from?
East Stroudsburg, PA.
Age?
8,858 days old.
Who got you into skating, and who is your influence currently?
Tech decks, Rocket Power, and a family friend growing up had a Nash board we would mess around on. Currently I’d say my friends and music or something.
Worst day ever skating?
Mostly every time. But fucking my knee up on my birthday tops them all.
Biggest pet peeve in skating?
Mega ramp. Monster hat.
So what’s up with you never having a job? You’re like twenty three and just finally got one. Tell us about it.
Everything is terrible. Hahaha I don’t know I just never really need that much money. I’m thrifty, aka cheap. I’d pick up odd jobs or just work in the winter and somehow squeak by during the summer. I’d like to thank my friends for the board donations! Anyways I’ve always been interested in blacksmithing, and randomly one day Jake Baldini sent me a craigslist ad for a blacksmith in search of an apprentice. So here I am a few months in learning the trade from an Austrian dude, Fritz Gruber. Making all types of stuff like balconies, decorative handrails and light fixtures.
Tell us about the Blu Park.
Oh god. Best skatepark around, heaven on earth. Grew up skating there and met all my friends there. It’s got everything you need. It seems to attract the worst non skater druggies though, which keeps it interesting. Other than that, there’s the best curbs you could ask for and they’re inside the skatepark. Slappy central.
What about when it got closed for nearly two years? What happened
with that?
Ha, well me and my friend Jayson got a little carried away drawing dicks all over the ground. We covered nearly half of the skatepark. It started off as a small drawing of Tony Hawk, in cock form, skating a vert ramp. “Tony Cawk.” I’m pretty sure it got closed cause we drew the locals cops as dicks. Nobody liked us that summer.
Wow, that’s horseshit. Speaking of horseshit, let’s talk about j3t. Whose part are you looking forward to most?
I’m looking forward to see it as a whole. I wanna see everyone’s parts. Brings back memories from the streets!
What’s one thing you wish you filmed?
Fakie backtail kickflip at some ledge in Princeton.
Favorite skate video?
Inhabitants
, that’s a hard question though. But I’ve probably watched that one the most.
Favorite video part?
Anything Jordan Sanchez.

================================================================================

What you up to?
Just chilling at the Barrett family house.
You skate today?
Yeah I skated at my aunts house for a little bit. Today is Easter. I was teaching my little cousins how to skate. It’s funny cause that’s where I grew up skating kinda.
You ever teach skating before, at a camp or whatever?
Yeah I did at Princeton skate park one year.
You like it?
Yeah it was alright. You’re around skating and you’re teaching kids. They are the future.
How’d you start skating?
I always had an interest in it. I first got a board when I was like six or something. It was an 80’s type board. I just rode around in a court at my old house. Then I started playing hockey and at the rink they had a skate park. So I quit hockey and became a skateboarder.
Do you miss hockey?
I scored seven goals in one game once. I kinda thought it was fun. Skateboarding is way more fun cause you can create it into your own game.
Why is recycling important?
Well it can help our planet by using less of its natural resources.
Do you like microwaves?
Ha, I don’t have one at my house. I don’t believe they can be good for you. I threw my old one out.
What made you think that?
Cause I could feel it leaking radiation. Every time it turned on I would want to hide from it. People even always say, don’t stand next to the microwave or you will get cancer. I feel that it is poison. I don’t want that in my food or body.
How was the SF trip you went on recently?
It was fun. We got to meet up with you guys. It was sick cause there were a lot of homies from home out there. Mikey got a 15 person van for a day. We were back and forth from Kyle’s in Berkeley. We got to meet Noah who’s giving Skate Jawns out there. Slept on homie Fred’s floor. Met the Phelper out there. I want to thank all them.
Tell me about Kevin Winters? What’s his video gonna be like?
It’s gonna be a mix of all types of skating in all types of places. Kevin is a pretty good filmer. I wonder how it’s gonna be.
What was the last book you read?
Well today I was reading a book called
Real Food Fermentation
. I started my first couple jars of sauerkraut today. I read a lot of books on food and health. I’m studying raw nutrition.
Where do you learn most things from?
It’s way easier to get a grip if I go through something first hand. I like making mistakes cause I learn from them. Books I use as portals into the universe. There is a lot to be discovered.
If you were lost in the woods how long would you last?
I know a pretty good amount of wild edibles. I don’t know how it would go. It could be good.
What’s an average day working with Mark like?
Bruns. Get up, wait for him to take a bath like a girl. Then go somewhere far away and pick up garbage for a little while and maybe build something. It’s alright cause it’s my dad and I’m helping out.
Any good Big Zachy stories from growing up?
He used to be a pimp back when we were little. He had a 8th grade girlfriend in the 6th grade. He pushed mongo and did big heel flips, all the girls loved him.
What’s yr best memory from Evolve Fest?
I’ve kinda always been a pretty frustrated individual, but going to Evolve helped me free myself from worries. It brought attention to myself. I learned to love myself. It’s like heaven on earth. Yoga, workshops, and good food. The people there are amazing. They are gods in my eyes. Do I have time to tell a story about it?
Yeah, definitely.
Well I went there the last two years. The first year was super emotional. But I will always remember my first few yoga classes. The one teacher from the first year remembered me the seconded year. His name is Alokananda. The second year I wanted an energy healing. I ran into him during my search for an energy healer. I went to the spot called the healing garden. There I saw a woman, and I asked if she was a healer. She gave me a hug and we started walking and talking. Then I had nothing else to say. I was looking for a healer and she wasn’t one. She kept walking in a real mystical, magic way and told me to follow my path. I stopped, turned around, and saw some friends. At this point I’m really tripping and I said I’m looking for a healer. Then there he was practicing some type a qi gong. I went up to him with my hands at my heart asking for help trying to find answers about life. I told him I’m looking for a healer. I told him all about my life, and how I want to change the world. He began to practice some basic yoga postures with me and then started breathing in places there was blocked energy. It was a shamanic healing. I told him how much weed I smoke He said that’s not the problem. He said he was feeding off my energy. And some wise looking elders passed and said “It’s an herbal thing.” We were standing like a warrior and he grabbed behind my spine, what felt like the energy of what was holding my spine up. He pulled it straight back like a bow and arrow. He was singing mantras and I was saying stuff back. I don’t know how, I just was. I’d close my eyes and see sacred geometry, and alien, and habitat symbols. Then I was coming back to my body and opened my eyes and he was gone. I was screaming at the top of my lungs. That’s the fist time I think I had an out of body experience, where I saw my body and aura from bird’s eye view. Then this beautiful girl came up to me after I was screaming. I was so alive. I was going crazy over everything. I was saying how much I love life and how beautiful she was. I saw this light in her eyes, so I kissed her. It wasn’t like me. I thought she was a goddess. We both went to the bathroom then she walked me to a kundalini meditation where the healing continued. I didn’t see her again till the last day. I guess that’s how it was supposed to be. Definitely a life transforming experience.
Let me just thank NJ, Habitat, friends, family, skateboarding, and everything everywhere. Time to sleep. Thanks.

================================================================================

Lets get started with the basic questions, name, age, where are you from?
Name’s Mark Schwartz, 23, Reading PA.
How would you describe Reading to somebody who has never been
?
It’s a dirty, trashy, stinky, small version of New York and if you want to skate our spots expect a crack around every corner.
When did you start skating?
I started skating when I was 9 years old. Magic park was an old 70s park made entirely of asphalt and it was also my local park. I was taught how to skate by long boarders, that’s why it looks like I’m surfing when I skate a bowl. Shout out to Chris, John, and Lee.
What was it like skating in Reading growing up? Did you have any influences?
Fun as shit. Everything is always new. The best times I can remember on a skateboard are when I was growing up.
What was it like skating with Maurio McCoy for such a long time?
Absolutely amazing. When you know him as a true friend he’s the coolest person, and his brother Dante, we all grew up together. He has what it takes to be pro and just so everyone knows he’s the roach not me.
Why are you always smiling and laughing so damn much?
I’m not, it’s the shape of my face and the sun’s always in my eyes.
How do you balance everything in your life right now with doing HVAC work fulltime, school fulltime, and skating?
Don’t forget my girlfriend Heather who lives in Delaware too. It’s not as bad as it sounds. No it is. It sucks. I just have certain days I can skate and days I can’t. If I could skate every day I would but I gotta make a living and I need a backup plan if anything happens.
What else do you like to do besides skating?
Besides being with my girlfriend, nothing. Skating is all I want to do in life, I hate everything else. Any type of career or hobby I think is lame.
I know you are big into music, what’s some stuff you’re into right now?
Right now I’m taking a step back from music. I was really into the indie music thing that’s still going on like the Mac DeMarco, Tame Impala stuff but why listen to that when I have an ICP cd in my car.
What kind of stuff do you prefer to skate?
Flat rails and skrellys.
How do you feel about skate contests?
I hate them, especially ones hosted by skate shops. The friends always win.
So, Congrats on getting on the Terror of Planet X squad! You went on a recent trip with them to North Carolina, how was that?
It was a blast everyone on Terror is so fucking cool and the spots were perfect.
Are you an HD or SD type of guy or does
that stuff not matter to you?
Don’t matter, as long as I got the clip.
Who do you usually skate with on a normal basis and what’s involved in a normal day?
Gabe Maldonado, Maurio, Zack Dawson, Nicky B, John Deperrot, Stuvert, Noah Knapp, Aden Long basically anyone on Holistic skate shop or who chills there. And there ain’t no such thing as a normal basis.
Can we talk about your 21st birthday and what all went down?
I puked all over the floor at Hooters then everyone had to listen to the Hooters girls cry as they cleaned it up and me laughing. I blacked out a few times.
What are your future plans?
Just like any other skater, I don’t know. Go with the flow, maybe try and make some things happen I never thought were never possible.

================================================================================

Interview by Chris Nieratko
Photos by JP Dougherty
Ever watch the movie Money Ball? There’s a formula for successful teams. In baseball, you need a heavy slugger but you also need a stud of a pitcher. In basketball, you need a star that will put up numbers but you also need a scrappy big man underneath to clean up. In skateboarding, your team is pretty wack if you don’t have someone from New Jersey. Every good team manager already knows this. That’s why you have to tip your hat to the UK’s Clown Skateboards; they knew if their triumphant resurrection of the cult ‘90s brand was ever going to be successful they were going to need a Jersey head. And they swung for the fences when they scooped up West New York’s finest, Jacob Gonzalez. Jacob turns up any session. He’s going to try the hardest trick first (and often get smoked trying it) to get everyone fired up. Jacob is one of the humblest yet rippingest cats to ever walk through NJ’s doors and we’re honored to have him as part of our family.
What’s up, Jacob?  How was your day?
It was good, I went out to the city to film with some homies. I randomly got hit up to model for some backpack company, Manhattan Portage, last minute for a few hours.
You do a lot of modeling?
This is like the fourth one I’ve done; not too often.
Was that ever something that you were interested in pursuing?
Nah, ever since I was a kid I hated being in front of the camera. I was never a fan of having my photo taken or being in family photos. But now it’s like if I get offered money I’ll do it.
Do you have a mean blue steel?
Haha, not really.
I heard you quit skating in high school for running.
Yeah, I pretty much quit skating right when I felt like I was at my best, to run for four years. I did cross country, indoor and outdoor track.
Were you fast?
So my freshman year I thought I was pretty good. The first race I ever ran I got second place with no training. That next weekend I ended up winning which was crazy, that’s what got me juiced to keep going. I went on to win a few county championships. But when I stepped up to varsity it was a whole different level, I was racing guys who were older and way faster.
Taking that long of a break did it come right back to you or was it hard?
I felt like it came back pretty quick. Those four years of building stamina helped. Overall I had just got a little stronger and taller.
Now you work at NJ skateshop on the weekend and you’re an aspiring filmer as well. I hear you’re always up in the trees to get these weird second angles.
Oh yeah with the phone. Yeah I mean if I’m not skating the spot I don’t wanna just sit around and waste time, I’m gonna get a second angle or whatever to help my friends. So I’ll climb random spots to get a second angle while staying out the filmer’s way.
You recently got hooked up with Clown Skateboards from the U.K. Which is super sick. How did that come about?
I was getting boards from a company for a little while and then I was just buying boards from NJ and then I guess Steve Lenardo got tired of me buying decks so he’s like, “Let me see if I can find someone to send you some boards just to hold you over.” I guess he had told Clown about me and sent them some footy and they were hyped on it. They sent me out a really nice box of boards, which is the biggest box I’ve ever gotten. A week later I started texting the owner, Jeff. It’s been pretty chill, we had a nice phone call where we talked about plans for the future, he asked me what my goals are and I was asking what his goals were with the company. I think they were around from 1998 to 2004. They were supposed to shut down for a year and that ended up becoming like twenty years, and then in 2020, they brought the brand back. It’s fairly new.
When I used to interview people a long time ago I always had a hard rule where I would never talk about religion or politics. As you grow up and change and evolve I have realized god is good, whatever your definition of god or higher power is. I know you’re Jehovah’s Witness. I don’t know if you want to talk on that at all?
I’m not a Jehovah’s Witness anymore. I grew up in that religion. Ever since I was young I always had doubts about all religions in general. I feel like across the board they all have very similar stories just told by different people with different characters. I feel like life is all about having good morals and at the end of the day being a good person, making the right decisions, and just not being an asshole human being, respecting life and others. I’m really grateful for the way my mom raised me. I feel like I have a pretty solid head on my shoulders because of her. I usually try to think things through before I act. I just hated going to church all the time and now I’m able to decide for myself what I want to believe in, which is nice.
Is it true you never celebrated birthdays or Christmas or any of that?
Yeah, most of my life it was like that. Now that I stopped going I guess I started to celebrate a little bit more.
Do you go hard on your birthday now?
I never really cared about it, and to this day I still don’t think it’s a big deal. I don’t tell people it’s my birthday or anything. Like if you know you know, kind of thing.
When’s your birthday?
December 11th.
Well, we’re going to buy you a cake this year.
I’ll be 22.
You’re getting old.
I know, man. These knees don’t jump like they used to. I have back pains; shit hurts.
What kind of cake do you want?
Nothing big. Just like a low key little personal cake. I like flan.
I’m going to ask my mom to make you her flan! There is no better flan than my mom’s.
I love that. Thank you.

================================================================================

How did you learn to shoot film?
I learned how to shoot film from a class I took in High School. I was already shooting photos but had no idea what film was until my teacher put me on. Shoutout Mr. Vendsel.
Why do you shoot film?
I shoot film because of its tangibility. I know after I process and store the negatives that they will always be there anytime I need them (god forbid they get stolen or physically damaged). Ideally my negatives will last longer than my lifetime and lifetimes after. Whereas, when you shoot digital you are only able to physically hold the photo after you print it. So there is no negative and you only have physical copies of what you print out. Most people don’t print every photo they shoot. The rest of the photos that don’t get printed just get stored on a harddrive or somewhere in cyberspace and you have a high risk of losing those files due to harddrive failure or computer crash.
Do you shoot digital much?
I shoot digital all the time. Anytime, I’m skating with my digital bag I always have a 35mm camera around my chest, for all the moments in between the trick. But once the session is getting rev’d up the digital setup will be out n ready to go.
Have you ever done developing? Made your own prints?
I develop all my own photographs in the comfort of my own bathroom. I’ve printed my photos before when I was attending class at SFSU but I am now working on finding a place to set up a couple enlargers.
Do you sit on film or develop as you go?
I definitely sit on a lot of film. Throughout the year I’ll have the rolls organized by the month to stay on track. But if I go on a trip or a team comes into town I’ll put those rolls up in priority and process them asap.
Who are some other film photographers that inspire you?
In the skate world, I’m a big fan of Tobin Yelland’s work he did in SF and the Bay Area back in the day. I like a lot of Mike Blabac’s older work he did in SF as well. I think Zander Taketomo is my favorite skate photog out right now. He’s out here shooting skate photos on medium format with strobes and the whole nine, just like the OGs did. Big respect.
What’s your main camera set up?
My main setup is Pentax K1000 with a 50 2.8 around the chest and an Olympus Infinity 2 on the hip. With the digital bag on the back.
What’s up with that mini ramp?
Mini ramp is in Half Moon Bay right off the 1 freeway. Go get some.

================================================================================

How old are you, where are you from?
I’m 21 years old, from Danvers, MA which is like 25 minutes north of Boston.
How long have you been skating for and how did you start?
I’ve been skating for about ten years give or take. I started because my friend Chris Hopper brought a skateboard to my house and I realized I had one in my garage, it’s been on like Donkey Kong since then.
Who do you skate with?
Who’s in the crew?
I basically just skate with whoever calls me. SBS crew in Danvers which is like all the kids I grew up with and went to high school with. Lately I’ve been skating with Kevin Manning, Matt Tomasello, Buddy Bleckley, and whoever else is around at the time. Also been filming with Nick Eliot, and his crew of youngsters. On the West Coast I skate with my Cold Gravy homies.
I saw a promo for Hustle skateboards and you had some sick clips in there. How did getting hooked up by them come about?
Last time I came out to SF a bunch of my friends were getting hooked up by Hustle. Apparently they put in good words for me and Jamie was down. I’m definitely grateful.
What plans are in the future for Hustle?
Are they planning on making a video anytime soon?
This summer apparently we’re supposed to be doing some touring to Chicago, Milwaukee, and Oregon which should be sick I’ve never been to any of those cities. I don’t know if they plan on making a video, at least not at the moment. We’ll definitely be putting out clips online though.
Other than Hustle Skateboard, is anyone else currently helping you out?
I’ve been getting help from Bamboozle skate shop in Salem, MA. Also as of lately Rob Pontes has been hooking it up with the Etnies, which has been awesome.
How often do you go out West to skate with the Hustle crew? Are you the only one that’s from the East Coast on the team and where are they based out of?
I’ve been to California four times since I graduated high school in 2009. I just work and save up cash and quit my job and go spend it out there. It’s tight that I got somewhere to stay always. I got to get out there at some point this summer. Hustle is based out of Oakland, CA and to my knowledge I’m the only one from the East Coast on Hustle. I’m definitely grateful.
Are you working on any projects at the moment?
We got some projects in the works! Kevin Manning is making a new video called “Poncho Time”. The origin of the name is a long story, but it should be a cool East Coast flick with a lot of Boston area spots. I also skate with Geoff Laskey and Allan Mcneil when they aren’t at work. Daniel Miranda is making a full length video for Cold Gravy and I believe we’ll be calling it
Warm Gravy
. Because if you think cold gravy is good just think about how much better it is when it’s warmed up! I’m hyped to be working on a West Coast video. My part’s kind of been done for a while we’re just waiting on everybody else. Go on youtube and type in Cold Gravy 12, that’s our most recent clip.