Given the choice between a military draft and a life on the road, Alexey thankfully took the latter.
A man without a country? Nah, he’s a citizen of the world, going full force as he charges Europe’s most unthinkable stone spots. On the heels of his new Vans part, we caught up with him to rap on his adopted home in Barcelona, sketchy ride-on grinds and what the hell’s up with that spooky cello. —
Ted Schmitz
Photos by DVL
Alexey adapts to Western Europe with a slew of needle-threading rips and a steadfast focus on overlooked spots. If you’re scared, that’s the point
Hey, Alexey! The new part’s really sick. Let’s start it easy: Where you at right now?
I’m at a spot in Barcelona with my friends.
Oh, shit. You’re already out skating.
Yeah, it’s 6:30 in the evening.
I think a lot of people after a part comes out, they like to take a break or collect themselves before the next part.
It depends. Sometimes you feel like you want more, and sometimes you just want to take time to enjoy skating. I’m just thinking about what’s next and I’m gonna skate with my friends. Because I didn’t skate pretty much the last two months. This summer, I had a plate in my foot taken out. For the past three years, I filmed everything with a metal plate inside my foot. I had the plate in for all the footage for the new part, I guess that’s why there’s so many ride-on grinds.
Up to the bust, pivot yank out     Photo: Riera
Ha! We’ll get to those. Last time we talked to you, you were still in Barcelona and you were working on getting citizenship or residency. Are you a permanent resident in the EU now?
Yeah, I got the residence permit now for five years. After that I can start the process of citizenship. It’s been two years since I got residency, so in three years I will probably apply.
Fuck yeah. How’s your Spanish?
I can understand everything. I can talk a bit when I go to do things around. But to have a full conversation, like a deep one, I can't do it. I understand like 80-percent. I've been practicing the Spanish on the streets and also had four or so lessons by myself at home. But yeah, obviously I have to improve that, that's for sure.
Sick. So you can make a life out there. Are you stoked out there? You have a good scene?
Yeah, a bit. I got some friends who moved here after the war started. So I got a little Russian crew here who’s skating. And I accidentally met Dima Brylev—who filmed good amount of the clips for this part—at one of the skateboard premieres, and we got along together pretty naturally.
Back noseblunt sans ollie on a mosaic marvel     Photo: Riera
We did a piece in the mag that was kind of a heartbreaking homage to the scene in Russia before the war, and it was about just remembering the good times skating, ‘cause the scene was separating. Have you been able to maintain contact with your friends back home?
Yeah, we talk with most of the guys. And of course I keep in touch with all my friends back home. That's a big part of me.
I feel like you guys were getting a lot of momentum there. Did you feel like when you had to leave that you had to start over? Or has Barcelona pushed your skating in a way?
I’ve been traveling a lot for the last eight years. So I got in touch with the European scene with the help of Chris Pfanner. We've been traveling and skating, doing trips and videos. So I knew a lot of people from before. But I wouldn’t say moving to Barcelona pushed my skating, exactly. I think the whole situation pushed my skating. I thought,
What else can I do?
It’s a lot of stress when you don’t plan to move, and then that happens, like the draft. Then you realize,
Oh, man, here is a risk for the type of life I want to live, and especially for my skateboarding
.
He lives on Earth, but his moves are from another planet. Floater over a clay chasm
You have a plate in your ankle!
Even if not the plate, I would find a way. The most important thing for me was that I would not be able to travel a lot. I would not be able to skate with my friends all over the world. That's what made me move. The war is crazy and scary. I had my friends. I knew everybody. But I wanted to skate, and if I stayed there, it would not be possible in the way I want it. There was a big risk to cancel all the life that I built there the past eight years.
Totally. A huge part of being a pro skater is being able to get in the van.
Exactly. That's the thing that I love the most. When you have a risk to cancel this thing from your life, you're like,
Oh, man, I gotta make a decision,
even if it’s the hardest decision. But now, I look at it from the perspective that,
Man, it's a good opportunity
. You know, we live in the world. Like, we live on the Earth, and it doesn't matter which country and all that. That's my point of view, and I'm trying to keep it up.
Fuck yeah, dude. You got one fuckin’ life and you don’t wanna waste it. You’ve got a rare gift and there’s only a few places you can make a living with it—mostly Europe and the US. Last time you talked to us, you had some issues getting boards. I noticed you were skating Piss Drunx boards in this new part.
Yeah, Dusty! Dustin Dollin started Piss Drunx as a skateboard brand. Now, we've been in a good connection with Dusty. We traveled together all the time and we kind of speak the same language—mentally. You know what I mean? So he was inviting me to do that. I was like,
I don't know, man
. So the last two years was without the sponsor. Then another video came out and he was like,
Why don’t you skate for us?
And I’m like,
Yeah, why not? We’re friends. It could be cool.
Now I’m skating the Piss Drunx boards. We're working on a new video, which probably will come out in March or something.
Wreckless in true PD fashion, front board, through the bend
Sick. Who else is on the team?
Matisse, you probably heard about him. He’s pro for Piss Drunx.
Oh yeah, he’s gnarly.
Yeah, he rips. There’s some other guys from Belgium. Jeroen Bruggeman, the transition guy who’s also good on the street. There’s some other people on support, too, but it’s pretty much us three.
That’s a solid crew. Let’s talk about this part a little bit. It’s kind of spooky. There's this insane, haunting cello. This string score is really minimal, but it’s low and kind of unsettling. What music is that?
I like to work with my friends and involve different people in the stuff I do. The music was made by Musya Krotkova and Mark Esin in Moscow. She plays cello and Mark plays the guitar. I’ve been a big fan of what they were doing. I was trying to find the song, and it was so difficult. Then I was thinking, like,
Who can give you some good spooky, slow and and kind of scary sound?
Because we had some B-roll already. Half the B-roll was shot before we had the music. I just texted Musya, “Maybe you got something unreleased that I can listen to? We’re making the part now, and I would love to use something from you to support.” She sent me some unmastered songs. I pushed the play button on this song and I was like,
Boom, that’s it! That’s what I wanted!
I sent it to Paul Labadie who was editing the part. He said, “Oh, man, I'm not sure about this song; it’s pretty experimental. I can’t see how it fits.” But he already had the timeline, and he just put the song down without any editing, and he’s like,
Oh, man, it's crazy. It looks so weird and scary
. Then Paul edited it and, yeah, that's how it worked!
Yeah, and it feels fucking crazy. I was expecting something upbeat or with a rockin’ rhythm, but then I was watching it like,
I’m kinda scared
. ’Cause you go from these desolate, burned-out buildings into the endless woods with a handheld camcorder between really crazy tricks—like
Blair Witch
. It’s a really different feeling shifting from hyper-energetic, wild skating to empty, soulless, depopulated, eerie emptiness.
Yes. That was the point. That's why it's called limbo. Because limbo is like a space between the dream and reality. And it kind of made sense with how I was living. I went from Moscow to here, and I was in a kind of weird mood—not accepting that I had to move. But on the other hand, I realized that I have to do it. You remember the first album of Black Sabbath?
I’m a little loose on my Sabbath. I know “Crazy Train.”
Well, some people will know. When Black Sabbath was recording their first album, they had this song also called “Black Sabbath.” When they had their first show, the people going there, they didn't get it. They were expecting some rock-n-roll, like, fun, speed, everything, People just got scared there at the show. So that's why people love the Black Sabbath from the first time, because they got scared. It's like the horror movie.
Crooked grind off a twelve stack? Ride-on, ride-on
Yeah! You’re inverting the expectations. People are thinkin’ they’re just gonna get hyped, but then you freak ’em out. It makes an impact.
Yeah, they’re getting scared and like,
Whoa, that's something else
. It’s kind of art, the skateboarding in general. With the other half of the B-rolls, I filmed them with the music on. Because I like to film and it was a nice experience to film some stuff with the music on, so you film it the way it should be in the video! Connecting everything together with the key of skateboarding, it's fucking amazing.
Yeah. What’s up with these B-roll clips? Were you seeking out these desolate complexes?
It’s basically all in Barcelona. The first part with the trees is on the Monjuïc mountain in Barcelona. We went there at 6 in the morning before the sunrise. We started to film, walking around the trees and trying to find the way out. You get lost. That was the idea. Then the other part with the lights and the big towels in the concrete building, it’s an old abandoned factory in Barcelona. So the guys from here who make art, they made the exhibition, and it's fucking creepy. My friend Dima Brylev—who we film with in Barcelona—went there and said "Man, there is something for you. You will love it!" So I took the camera and filmed three hours of film there.
Not everything needs a new approach, kickflip nosegrind
Great approach. Let’s talk about some of these tricks. Ride-on grinds have kind of a bad rap right now. But you take the easy thing and find a way to make it pretty special or dangerous. Were you trying to get a bunch of them in the part?
I don’t actually care if they got a bad rap. I'm trying to do what feels good to me, you know? I’m trying to impress myself first. I’m thinking,
How can I impress myself on a skateboard?
Because if I do the huge 360 flip from something, I would be impressed, probably, but a lot of people now can do the huge 360 flip. It's there and there and there, everywhere. Wherever you look, there is a guy who’s jumpin’ with a 360 flip. I don't mean that it's easy or something, but it's kind of casual. So I’m trying to find a different approach all the time. I'm trying to think about the spots where people don't usually skate. And I just like the feeling of the ride-on grind, you know? It’s fun!
The one you did through the super tight pillars, it doesn’t even look like a board fits through it.
It is really tight. It’s in Poland, in Warsaw. It was really tiny. I was touching the pillars with my heels all the time. Even on the make, I was touching the pillars. So I think that’s what made me do it, and made me want to do it. I like how it looks on the footage, those two pillars. It’s got some taste in it with the architecture.
Through the keyhole to switch crooks without a millimeter to spare
Yeah, it’s a nice extra touch. It’s not just a ledge off a set. Is there someone that influences your vision of skating?
I want to say Gosha Konyshev, the guy who filmed
the part in the winter
. This guy was my inspiration since since I was a kid. He was always around and he was already a legend in Russia. So I was always looking up for him, like,
Oh, man, this guy has got something special
. He was always doing something that no one does, with a little bit of extra, as you said. And then, Gonz! Now, that's my favorite skater. He’s got such a freedom in everything he does. There is no rules in skateboarding. You don't have to do kickflip backside noseblunt bigspin out in a line. That's not obligated. Sometimes the one extra push makes the whole line better, not the tricks. So Gosha and Mark Gonzales, those guys inspire me.
That’s awesome. Speaking of being free skateboarding, do you get worried when you’re street skating in Europe as someone who immigrated in? I’m just thinking about it here, like I would be kinda nervous of getting in trouble with the law, considering the nature of street skating.
Not really, no. I'm just skating. If some people don't like it, they can ask, and I will not do it. But there was one situation when the cops came to the spot and I was kinda scared. We were in the south of Spain, in Alicante, and they came up. But Roberto Alemañ got in the mix right after and he was talking to them, then he said to me, “Move, move, move. Get lost for a moment.” Because he knew I could get in trouble. So that was a moment I got a little scared. But other than that, I’m not really thinking about it.
Backside grind down flat down for the fan
Shout out, Roberto. And when you go through different countries like Poland or France, do you get along with people pretty easy? Or do you ever get vibed out?
I don’t know. I meet good people on my way all the time. I’m lucky with that. I think the skaters in general are pretty welcoming. It's really like a huge family all over the world. When you are with the wrong people, you feel it straight away, and you just get away from this situation.
Yeah, that’s the same here. Before I lived in New York, I used to think the East Coast was a lot of vibey locals. But if you’re respectful, everyone’s pretty mellow and nice.
That’s how life goes. You get what you bring to the table. If you bring the good vibes and a good mood, you’re warm and kind to everyone, that’s what you get back. If you’re a dick, of course everyone’s going to be a dick to you. Sometimes I can be a dick, too.
Well, we’re all human. Seems like you got a good head on your shoulders. You’re bringin’ something good to the table. Europe’s pretty hot right now. You used to have to come to the US to do the thing, but it looks like you can just have a full career out there. Did you ever feel a pull to the US or have California dreams?
Oh yeah, I want to come to New York this year. Last time I went to the US in 2018, I liked it. But I was too young and I wanted to go home. Now I'm looking at it a bit different. I mean, Europe is doing pretty good. But I also want to see something else. I want to see what’s going on all over the world. So now I have a feeling that I want to come.
You’ll love it. I feel a little bit embarrassed of the US when I talk to people outside the country. Everyone saw how old and unable to talk our last president was and the new one is maybe the stupidest guy I’ve ever seen. Does it seem like we have a bad reputation? Or do you think,
Why would I go over there? All the smart, cool skaters are in Europe!
I don't feel it.
Gettin’ a bird’s-eye view of this crazy world, wallie backside grab
Even if you’re lying, thank you.
I’m for real. I don't hear something like this. We are people. We are not the same as our political leaders. We’re people, and that's the most important thing. I mean, all the political leaders all over the world probably are fucking crazy.
Oh yeah. Hard agree.
In every country, the leader is fucking manic. That's a fact that I realized, so I don't give a shit about them. Yeah, that's what I would say.
Shove-it noseblunt into into the lawn landing, dude's more than human
Well, thank you for not holding it against us.
Come on, you are you. You are not American. You are just a human.
I gotta write that down. Alright, so you're with the right crew. You're with Pfanner; you're with Dustin, and you're making moves. What's your hope for the future? What are the plans?
It’s hard to say what's gonna happen tomorrow. I just want to do what I love the most. I want to open the new things in life. I just want to do what I love to do consistantly and I want to do it good.
Consistently good? Then we'll see you at Pro Skate League.
Yeah, I’m down.
If you haven’t noticed, dangerous and uncertain paths are kind of his thing. One-push noseblunt with a firecracker finish, Alexey always lands on his feet
%MCEPASTEBIN%

---

Chris Russell looks like a tough guy
—and he is!—but this transition maniac has more depth than any pool. So we caught up with the Muscle to talk real-life issues: fatherhood, traumatic injuries, mental health and identity. Don’t miss this one from our December, ‘24 mag.
Full commitment on every clip, this new part for OJ is an unrelenting performance from one of our best
Exciting times since we last caught up with you in
Thrasher.
What’s the most exciting stuff that’s been happening to you lately?
A lot has changed, from becoming a new father to navigating this new part coming out, dealing with some not-so-cool things like injuries and everything, but still able to push through all that. It’s been a crazy year, to say the least.
Some say his heart is the biggest muscle in his body. This kid's gonna get a lot of love
Let’s start with this blessed event. What was it like having a child born?
I think I’m going through the motions. It’s so crazy. It’s just a trip seeing almost a carbon copy of you. Your heart just opens up and you realize that you’re not just doing life for you anymore. It’s a huge switch, especially as a skateboarder. It’s such a different perspective, but it’s beautiful and it’s very exciting. It’s very unknown. It’s coming with its challenges and its rad things every day. It’s been eye-opening.
For some of the
Thrasher
readers who are young men, what was your reaction when you first heard the good news?
I think being 27 and having a kid on a complete accidental whim is pretty crazy and heavy to take in.
Hellacious ollie drop before the city council meeting    Photo: Rhoades
How did you process and work through that?
You kind of swim. You swim around, and your head just tries to logically set in stone,
This is really happening.
Then you go through these motions of,
It doesn’t even feel real,
like it’s not really happening. And then you get reminded every few months. There’s all these peaks and valleys of emotions coming into this very unknown space. Then finally, those last few weeks come, and then the butterflies really start to arise, and you just kind of click into gear. You’re like,
Here we go, getting to swing.
Were you in there, in the gown, or were you in the lobby smoking cigars?
It’s a shame. I was up in Portland, actually filming and visiting family, working on this part and doing all sorts of other things.
It happened so quick. She went and didn’t know she was even going into labor. By like five in the morning, I got a call that she was cramping and maybe having some contractions. And then all of a sudden, dilation was starting to spike. I booked a flight too late, honestly. I missed the birth by an hour and a half. But my mom was in there, and she took my place. She cut the cord, and it was really special. Right when I came in, he was pretty much super passed out, didn’t open up his eyes or anything at all. And then I got in there, and we just looked into each other’s eyes super deeply for what seemed like forever, and that was just super special.
From the hip to the tombstone (and the cradle to the grave), Russell will never stop ripping   Photo: Ballard
You said your heart opens up. That’s a good way to describe it.
It’s just this weird connection. You start to think about your parents a lot more and the relationship they had with you. It gives you perspective on that. I would say, you give a lot more grace to all the tough times that you went through with your parents. And then you understand that some of that’s going to be replicated in that same sense with you and your son. It’s a lot more soft and understanding, like this generation-to-generation thing. You start to understand what your father went through and what your mother went through. It’s just this connection, and you see yourself. You think about all the things that you want to do right in this little person’s life.
What’s the boy’s name?
His name’s Ryder.
Amazing. Congrats! So you mentioned seeing your parents’ experience in a different light. What was the worst heck you put your parents through?
Wow. I don’t know. I think we all still do it a little bit. Me and my family are so close. But I think from day one, I was just such a hellion. I was bouncing off the walls. Even before I grabbed a skateboard, I was opening up my head and going to the hospital and jumping off things. Then I found this outlet that I was able to put all that energy into. It still didn’t get easier for them, but I think they were super stoked that I had something that I obviously loved. I had a lot of passion for it and I directed everything towards that. They made sure to help me along the way, and gave me a lot of freedom, too. I think the hospital visits probably took a few years off my mom’s life. She still has a hard time watching my skating. I think I was just a typical spazoid kid who would get hurt a lot, but also just had too much energy, so I put my parents through a lot.
What was the most absurd medical scenario from when you were a younger kid?
It was really funny. I don’t even know if I was really skating yet. There was a time where I almost broke my neck, like a few times when I was young. We would skimboard down at the beach. I would skimboard on my boogie board. I threw my boogie board down when it was really sucking out, kind of like shore pound. We would wait for the waves to quarterpipe up, and we would launch off of them. I remember throwing my board down and being on the back seat and throwing up the windshield wipers. It was super shallow. I just did one flip and another half-flip straight to my neck and onto the sand. I rocked myself so bad. I was so young. I must have seriously been six years old. It fucked with my nerves super heavy, but my neck was fine. It was super tweaked, though. I remember having to wear a donut, like a neck brace, for a few months in kindergarten or first grade. It was so embarrassing. Then I remember jumping down my stairs, not that long after that. Still had the neck brace too, but I was over it. I slammed my head all crazy, because we set up the ottoman down there, just crazy boy shit. I cracked my head on the wall. Then I had to put the neck donut back on.
Surprisingly, Jimi Hendrix wrote very few songs about eggs     Photo: Ballard
I remember seeing you really early. You looked like Peppermint Patty and you had full pads. Did you also have the Bob Oakley Blades?
No, I never. There were a few kids that wore the Oakley Blades. I had really good eyesight my whole life. I never had to wear glasses. I always thought that was a really funny look, though.
Now as a grown-up, what do you think you were probably like at The Block or at the park growing up to the older guys?
Oh, I was so annoying. So gnarly. I was snaking. I didn’t care. I would say, “Fuck you!” I was such a rebel from the start. I wasn’t afraid to stand up to anybody, and that kind of came through in my skating. It was just funny. I think I was probably some of those dudes’ worst enemy. And then, funny enough, skating with Lester Kasai, Christian Hosoi and Bennett and all those dudes, they took me under their wing right away. I feel like that was such a huge influence. I skated with Pat Ngoho all the time as a youngin’. Also Lizzie Armanto and Allysha Le would always come along and skate so much. So we had such a funny crew, and different generations, a lot of influence from the ’80s. I’m sure I got on so many of those dudes’ nerves.
Taking it top shelf and beyond at our Beloved Lady of Burnside    Photo: Brook
How did your relationship with Grosso evolve over time?
I think I stuck around long enough for him to love me. That’s how it always works. Grosso was so on point with everything, from how he talked about skating to etiquette. I respected him so much, but as a little kid, these concepts don’t make sense. You’re just excited by the environment around you, and you see people that are your heroes and you want to skate with them and impress them. So everything beyond that doesn’t make any sense. Then you get older and it changes significantly. You start bonding with these people you look up to. And if you’re lucky, you start appreciating their words. I think that was the shift. He showed so much support whenever I would skate. He would just give me a lot of hype and always had my back, which I really appreciated.
Left: Baby snake
Right: In the pit with the big kids, front Smith
You said when you were younger, you would never back down from anybody. Describe a time when that really blew up in your face.
The statute of limitations is ten years, right? I’m sure this guy regrets it so much. Maybe it’s already been shared. But there was this session going off at Culver City bowl. It was like Tom Knox, Omar Hassan and everybody was there. It was like 30 dudes. I’ll keep his name out, ‘cause he assaulted a child, technically. I kept snaking, and I kept snaking. I was fucking dog brain, you know? I was too excited. And this dude, who I will not name, but he’ll know from the story, I snaked him. He’s like,
If you do that one more time, you’ll see what happens.
I took that as a challenge. The guy was well over 200 pounds, and I’m maybe ten or 11 years old. I was like,
Fuck this dude,
in my head. I can’t stand authority, even in a space like that. I took it as that. He jumped off his board in the flat bottom, and I remember carving around, and he just clotheslined me. I’m like 11 years old and he’s 250 pounds, a big dude. And I remember just crying, but I was also like,
Fuck you!
I started yelling and we start having a little cussing match. It’s burned in my memory. It’s the funniest thing ever. Ask Omar about it. It’s burned in his memory too.
Did that teach you anything?
Fuck no. It made me crazier, if anything. I think I’m just too stubborn.
The swan dive was somehow the least dangerous event at Swampfest
You put yourself in harm’s way and throw caution to the wind so often. Last year at the Swampfest, you were diving off of the top of the tower into the puddle, doing all this crazy shit. Did you get angry that you got your eye injured, and it wasn’t even anything you did?
Yeah. I mean, I’m still going through the emotions of that. It’s affected my life so negatively. It grew to get so negative too, which is the hard part. Because the first three months, I’m sitting with this thing, getting adjusted in my really, really bad vision, and being on medication for the rest of my life now. And coming to terms that I’m probably not gonna have this eye in ten or 15 years. So it’s still a lot of emotional things. It’s affected so many things outside of skateboarding. I go in and out of being really angry about it. It’s really tough. It’s tough when the person who did it too is pretty unapologetic, and I had to kind of go through that. There’s all sorts of weird things, right? It can put you in a really bad spot. The medication I’m on has its bad side effects too, like depression and all sorts of other things that I’ve been feeling, all sorts of heavy things for my physical body, outside of the injury itself. Sometimes I forget about it. But I never really fully forget because I’m taking meds three, four times a day, you know?
Shit ain't just a spectacle. Wear your goggles    Photo: Aguilar
So do you have any vision out of your left eye?
Yeah, I have about 35 percent of what I did have.
It seems like you’ve been able to make some adjustments to be able to skate.
Totally, I think the human body’s very capable in that way. But definitely like driving at night, or doing anything at night, stuff with heavy lights and stuff affects me. Having to always have this really fragile thing on your face makes you approach life a lot more differently.
Three fingers and one eyeball is all he needs to guide this kickflip egg safely home   Photo: Rhoades
I saw you skate yesterday. You didn’t seem particularly overly cautious or scared.
No, if I’m feeling heavy, I’m gonna put it somewhere.
You mentioned this yesterday, too. It’s weird, because you’re a Creature and you guys are some tough guys.
You were saying, “God, now I got to talk about this in therapy.” A lot of people are realizing they have to take care of their mental health the same way they do their physical health. How did you come around to that realization?
Life gets heavy and I think you need extra help to hold the weight sometimes. So much can happen in the span of one-to-two years that dramatically change the course of everything in your life. Processing those things and trying to strive to do better can seem like an impossible feat sometimes. Your mental and physical are aligned in this life. Skateboarding can’t be the only thing that processes the bad. It’s a great tool, but you need other means to solve some of the complexities that smack us in the face. Leaning on people who are neutral and professional outside the skate world has made me do some immense reflection. I’m still, and always will be, learning how to be better off my board. Skateboarding/the industry tends to create these characters larger than life that simplifies us as a whole. At the end of the day we all have problems and whole other lives off our boards. We are all just trying to be happy in our own skin, you know?
Frontside bluntslide, Muscle hustles at Channel St.    Photo: Ballard
People might see you at the ramp jam or at the demo and think you’re like a total animal. Do you ever have people have different impressions of you other than how you really are?
The people that really do know me, know that I’m just such an emotional person. I feel really big and have very extreme highs and very extreme lows. I don’t really have that in-between marker, ever. It’s so funny, because I think a lot of people think I’m just like hyper-masculine, not very tapped in, or shut off what I feel. But honestly, a lot of people that do know me, know that I’m pretty emotionally intelligent. I’m a lot softer than everybody thinks.
You’re an OC, tattooed, bowl-riding guy, and people might think they have an idea of what that kind of person is like. I thought it was really cool that you were sticking up for queer skaters on Instagram. Why did you want to do that?
If you don’t stand for anything, what do you stand for?
as they say. It’s personal and weird for me to talk about on a public platform, since I’ve never done this before in the open, but I’m not straight myself. So it feels personal when people have this idea of queerness-equals-weakness philosophy or they feel the need to attack gay people on a public forum. Transparently, I’m pansexual, but prefer the term sexually fluid because it just makes more sense to people. Almost all my friends know this about me, but I also don’t share it with everyone. Having to rewire the idea that someone has in their head about you, I’m sure lots of queer and even straight people can agree, can be a draining concept. To be fair, I’m not a totem for the gay community and will never try to represent more than I am. I’m pretty shitty on social media these days. There are a lot more important and interesting things about me than who I sleep with. It goes back to the last question though ––we are these complex people off our boards. You don’t know the full story usually unless you inquire. I just want people to feel accepted, appreciated and know that strength comes in all shapes and sizes.
Narrow ramps, open minds—skateboarding has it all    Photo: Brook
That’s really cool. I appreciate you sharing that. We are doing this interview right before your last trip to film for this video. What’s taking you to Europe for this trip?
Yeah, man, I’m super hyped. We’re going out and skating that giant statue all the way out in Poland. So it’s pretty amazing, man.
What’s it feel like knowing that’s what’s waiting for you?
It’s crazy. It’s a full mission, dude. There’s all these logistics we had to get lined up to make it happen—Bungee cords and crews, but it’s all falling into place and it’s amazing, man. I’m really happy that I get to go and keep skating and searching and going and finding all this shit to go ride. It’s pretty wild. I think that’s kind of like my theme for the next few years; I really want to just try to keep skating as hard as I can and try to make it happen. Try to keep exploring and finding new things, skating things like statues and crazy fucking terrain in foreign places, I’m really excited. I’ve been wanting to skate it for years. Ever since I saw Oski Rozenberg do some shit on it, I was like,
What the hell?
Also, Tom Remillard was the first one to crack that one off.
Soaring with the raptors! Frontside fastplant in Poland   Photo: Bączkowski
You’re one of our favorite skaters, so no big surprise, we were stoked to put you on the cover. What did it mean to you to get the cover of the mag?
Dude, I was tripping out. It was crazy. I couldn’t stop crying. There’s all these weird pivotal things that have happened in my life, right? I’m going through that currently. I go through these things where there’s all this heaviness surrounding me. And skateboarding has always been that thing that kind of sucks me back in. I come back in and I’m like,
I’m here.
That was one of those moments where I remember I was having such a bad week. I was like,
Man, what the fuck am I doing? I’m making 1500 bucks a month right now. My kid’s almost here.
I had a lot of those moments in the last year. But it was so funny. And this is the truth. I was at a bonfire the night before and I was talking to Seegull. I was like,
I don’t know if I’ll ever get a cover. If I could only do one thing, and I don’t care what happens from here on out, that’s the one thing.
It’s such a hallmark. That’s the one thing that we all wish for, to get that cover, get blessed with the cover. It’s more than any medal can give you. And especially right now, everybody’s so good, so gnarly. Then I remember waking up in the morning, refreshing Instagram, and there it was. It was like this weird divine thing that happened. I’m like,
That’s just a joke. There is no way I was talking about that last night, and that just happened.
I couldn’t stop crying. I was just bawling my eyes out, and it meant so much to me because I was just having such a rough week. And I think skateboarding has shown its signs that I need to keep doing this. That was one of those big signs and one of those big pushes that I’m moving in the right direction. Like,
Keep going and you’ll figure it out.
I get a call from Seegull right after, and he’s like,
Look what all your bitching and whining did last night. How you feel now, dude?
Like,
Idiot.
Man, it was so funny.
That was great. Thank you, Chris.
This arm holds a lot of weight, but it's that strength and this seat-skippin' eggplant in the Valley that put him firmly on the front of our July, 2024 mag. Manifest it, kids!

---

Photo: Battlay
Up until his part for 4 skateboards dropped on the
Thrasher
site,
you may have never heard of Adam Davies. His coverage has up until now been centered around his home city of Melbourne, but make no mistake, this fella is world class. On the boxing day of his part premiering at Melbourne’s Fast Times City Store coupled with a surprise board with his name on it, I sat down with Adam to discuss the whos, whats, wheres, whys, and most importantly, that ender on the only handrail he’s ever skated.
Every clip brings some new facet of Adam's technical powers. Watch it again to properly appreciate
How did you discover skateboarding?
Just the classic way, really. My neighbors started skating and I thought it was cool. I skated for a bit, fell away from it, then got into
Tony Hawks Pro Skater
and the idea of skating. When I started high school I picked it up again which was around my 13
th
birthday. Twenty years on, I’ve never stopped.
I know you grew up with and were good friends with Tully West who passed away in 2020. Can you tell us a good Tully story or memory of yours?
Yeah, Tully was like a younger brother to me, it felt like. He actually started at my high school about a year or two before I finished, so it felt like we knew each other forever. Probably my favorite Tully memories are actually me filming him for my old iPhone video series
Dork Squad
that I did for
The Skateboarder's Journal
. He was
always
down to film some crazy thing, either some marathon line around Lincoln Square or some weird handplant gimmick. I remember he went through this stage of buying second-hand cameras from thrift stores, and if they didn’t work—which they often didn’t—he would bring them out purely to film a trick and then smash the camera in the same clip. That always had us both in stiches. I feel so lucky to have captured all of that footage of him at that time, both skating and being cheeky. I’ll often look back over them or the super part I made out of all his footage when I’m missing him. It feels good to remember and have a laugh, plus some of his tricks are legitimately insane.
Kickflip back lip across the emergency exit    Photo: Chami
You are born and bred Melbourne, what keeps you there and is there anywhere else you’d live?
Yeah, Melbourne is home. Although I did a couple of stints in LA on the classic 90-day visa thing, stayed with Mikendo down in Torrance and skated with Keith and Grant and the rest of the HUF or
Weekendtage
guys back in 2011-13. Between those two 90-day visas, I actually followed my girlfriend—now, wife—Steff to live in Vancouver. We weren’t sure how long we’d stay, but overall, it ended up being about 18 months. Once we did our second stay in LA, we were sad to leave but so stoked to get back to Melbourne. It really feels like home. I think what keeps us here now would be mostly family, but also the city itself is just so sick. And we have some of the best food in the world here because it’s so multicultural. There are just so many great options; I feel like we’re really spoiled.
After being distro flow on various US brands for a few years you found a home at Australian brand 4 Skateboards. What made you take that route and how is it at 4?
Yeah, I guess it’s quite hard to ride for a company when you’re not living in the same country. I’ve seen a lot of friends and others around the world make the same move. I’ve been a fan of 4 for so long, always loved their videos.
The Perfect Amount of Lazy
is such a good watch, and so many great Australian skateboarders have ridden for 4 over the years. Alex Campbell’s part in that video is so insane. But basically, I had been friends with Harry Clark from a few years earlier when we went on a
Journal
trip to China. I was also skating a lot with Morgs through our adidas trips at the time. I just figured it made so much sense, so I reached out, and they were down! It’s been really awesome. Plus, heading over to Perth while filming for this part was so fun, skating with all the guys and just hanging out.
The best back nosegrinds are measured in meters    Photo: Chami
We spent a lot of time travelling together the past six years when I was working for adidas. What is your fondest memory or a funny story from those times?
Something that stands out was on that adidas trip we did to Shanghai with the Japanese team. Teaching you, Hiroki Muraoka, Shin Sanbongi and Laurence Keefe the breezer game. I think it’s similar to “getting iced” in the States from what I hear. You guys were getting
so
into it. I have the best photo on my phone of you doing a puffer-fish face against the glass window of a Lawsons after a few too many breezers. But I found it so funny that you and Laurence got so into it, you were almost sabotaging your own team riders.
Oh, man, that’s some bad leadership on our end!
The other thing that stands out from that Shanghai trip, was just exploring buildings and seeing if we could get up to rooftops. I remember one night, we fully snuck past a sleeping security guard like in the movies, to get an elevator up to a top floor. We went through some business boardrooms, through some kitchens and onto the roof. Although then it had like a secondary roof that we could get up to if we climbed up this sketchy ladder, which we obviously did; we needed to get to the top! Anyway, we’re up there admiring the view and taking photos and all of a sudden this dude pops up the ladder. He had no English, so we thought we were fucked, like he was gonna be with the cops or something, but he ends up coming over to us and showing us photos of himself on
other
rooftops! He was there for the same thing! Anyway, we got him to take some group shots of us, then he wanted to take us to some other rooftops. We were over it by then, so we bounced back to the hotel.
I’ve noticed you don’t seem too involved on any kind of routine as far as diet or exercise, like I’ve seen you get plenty hammered on trips but still skate hard as fuck the next day. Am I right here? Do you have any kind of routines or things you do to be able to skate?
Yeah, I could definitely do more to help myself probably. But basically, I work Tuesday through Saturday full-time, so I guess my routine is: skate Sunday and Monday, and be real sore for the week ahead. By the next weekend, I’m good to go again. I guess throughout the week I tend to have pretty healthy days at home, eating soups, salads, super-healthy meals and no alcohol, which helps to offset the weekends’ drinks and more fun meals. Oh, and I ride my bike about ten miles each day traveling to and from work. When we’re out skating, we’re often clocking 13–19 miles on the bike, along with me probably filming a trick for a few hours. So that’s my main exercise, which seems to work out okay for me so far. Fingers crossed.
If riding your bike to work can help you switch flip front noseslide like Davies, then the war on cars is probably a good thing    Photo: Chami
When I am out skating or on a trip, it’s basically a holiday for me. Like my weekends, I’m away from work, so I’m just going to eat and drink whatever, skate as hard as I can. The first few days of any trip are always hard to adjust to, as I’m used to the few days off in between. But you just have to push through the sore legs and the hangover, ‘cause you’re only there for a short time. It’s always worth it, as I always want to be able to look back and feel like I did everything I could.
The
Thrasher
audience will have seen your part now. How did it come about, who was involved and what was it like putting it together?
Yeah, I hope everyone likes it. It feels weird to think it’s done and what the next project will be. Basically after we finished the 4 clip
Holding Pattern
which was a VX video, the first clip I got after that was the fakie tail half-Cab flip on Everest—the long ledge across the grass gap—with James James. Then we just had the idea to go full in on a part together for 4. His standards are always so high that I feel like he pushes me to get better and better footage. That does often mean a three-hour battle, or potentially multiple days of battles, which is incredible that he’s always there and down for—he’s the best. Of course, we had to give away some footage along the way to adidas projects and another little 4 clip, so it’s taken longer than we initially thought. But I’m really happy with how it’s come out.
You can't take a fakie tail kickflip this far with low standards
You mentioned Everest. I love that all the Melbourne skate spots have these amazing nicknames, like “No Piss Plaza,” because there isn’t a bottleshop anywhere close. Do you also have a favorite name for a spot?
The spot names are always a crack up. I feel like I always hear them from Max Couling, and I think he’s come up with a lot of them. Probably the one that comes to mind straightaway was “Magnets.” I had absolutely no idea what he was on about or what spot it was when I heard him say it. It was this like natural street quarter that ran along this bike path, and it had a wall behind it that you could fly out and wallride or grind the quarter. It turned out Max named it “Magnets” before he had never even been there, as any street quarter is such a natural magnet for skaters. All of Melbourne had been there within the first two weeks of someone finding it! I think the funniest thing is that whenever he tells me the name of the spots, he says the name like it’s as normal as the sky’s name being the “sky.” It’s like,
Of course I should know it
, which makes it so much funnier that he named it that without ever having been there.
How about top five Melbourne spots of all time?
One: Lincoln square, for sure. Two: library. Three: No Piss. Four: Quick Stop, before they cut the tree down. Five: The Melbourne drains, as jacked as they are.
Flip in, flip out or both? How do you decide?
That’s the toughest question. No, actually the toughest question is,
Should
you do either?
It’s so easy to do
too much
, and I probably already do. I find there’s a lot of tech tricks that I think I could do that just aren’t tasteful. There are some that even though I know it’s a bit much, I just need to do to get them out of my head, to see if I can actually do it. And also sometimes when I try to do less, I just feel like it’s not enough. So, I dunno, probably flip in—more options and more tasteful.
Tell us about your secret wedding and then the fake wedding?
Oh, man, it was the best! We planned our wedding to be here in Melbourne with all our friends and family, but were never interested in doing the big ceremony in front of everyone and all that. Our plan was just to go to the town hall, do the official stuff and then have a fun, almost like an engagement-party-style wedding reception. Anyway, we were headed to the States to visit Steff’s sister and brother in law for her nephew’s 4
th
birthday, and they live in LA. We just started to think,
How much more fun it would be to detour up to Vegas and get married there instead of the town hall
? So we did! Little White Chapel, married in a Cadillac by Elvis, the whole deal, it was so much fun! Obviously, we had to let our immediate family know the plan. For the rest of our family and friends we just kept our mouths zipped and surprised them at the wedding in Melbourne. It was so fun, best day ever.
No passport, no problem, Davies takes a trip over the channel with a switch flip    Photo: Chami
Tell us about the honeymoon that nearly didn’t happen?
So it had been ages since we’d had a proper holiday together, ‘cause of COVID and everything. So we had tacked on a week in an all-inclusive resort in Mexico, which would have been like a mini-honeymoon after Vegas. Then we had a week in LA with our family. Anyway, to sign our wedding documents and everything, we needed all our documentation to prove who we were. Being from Australia, everywhere in the States needs to see your passport. So we had a little bag with all our documents and stuff we’d need with us. Cut to us getting our just-married wedding photos taken out in front of the Little White Chapel. Obviously, you don’t want to be holding a backpack in your wedding shots, so we put it down within eyesight, right where we were out in front. Anyway, next thing we know, the bag’s just fucking gone. They didn’t touch the bottle of champagne or the flowers, just snatched the bag. We were right there and didn’t even see who did it, but its’ South Las Vegas Boulevard, where there’s a lot of sketchy people around. Luckily, I had both of our phones and my wallet on me, but yeah, both our passports were stolen. We look around for a bit, in case they ransacked it and ditched it anywhere close, but no luck. I thought,
It’s fine, we’ve got travel insurance. Let’s just continue with our night
. We cancel all of Steff’s cards, and just say,
Fuck it, let’s have the best night we can
. Remember, we’re halfway through getting our wedding photos done, and we won’t get another chance to do that again. Anyway, we suck it up, get a drink, shoot the rest of our photos and it was the best. Walking around Vegas, just married, it was like a movie.
Picture-perfect kicky back noseblunt    Photo: Battlay
Here’s the thing, though, when we get our emergency replacement passports once we’re back in LA, they tell us,
If you go to Mexico as you had planned, the USA will not let you come back with this emergency passport, even if only to transfer flights. Cancel Mexico, stay in America and fly straight home
. What was great, though, was that in the case of lost or stolen passports, the travel insurance we had is designed to keep you having the closest trip to what you had originally booked. So we changed the Mexico trip to Hawaii instead, which was so nice and even more on-brand, as there’s so much Elvis lore in Hawaii! It ended up being perfect. Due to the insurance, we got to do Hawaii on a Mexico budget, which worked in our favor! Although, we still can’t wait to get to Mexico.
Man, that whole situation sounds so stressful, but amazing that you came up in the end! You work at your family optometry business full time. How do you manage to hold down what seems to me like a damn-serious job along with a relationship and still churn out footage?
Yeah, it’s awesome and something I never thought I’d do or be into. My mum opened up Carlton Eyelab in 2013, and I joined in 2014, just basically helping her out with a day here and there, greeting people and stuff. Over time, I learned more and grew to like the work, eventually transitioning to full time, and then studying to become an optician. Now, we’ve basically been running it together for the last 5 years, I’d say. It’s more of a high-end store, where we import handmade frames from small businesses around the world, so we travel a bit to find new brands that aren’t here in Australia. We design our own collection of frames as well, which I really enjoy. I think that really keeps it interesting. If it was just your run-of-the-mill optometrist, I don’t think I’d ever have lasted. With my wife Steff, we always try to either head out for dinner or make a really nice dinner and some cocktails at least once or twice a week to have some quality time. But really, I’m just so lucky. After 12 years together, she knows the time it takes to get these projects done. When it comes to getting footage, I just try to use my time wisely. Like I said about going on trips, I know the time I have, so I try to make the most of it. Hopefully I come with an idea already, not just spending time at skateparks and stuff. But to be honest, I feel like most skaters out there who are putting out parts all work full time. I feel like the,
Whoa, this guy filmed a part while working full time
kinda thing is a bit redundant these days. We all have jobs. You either get out there and make the most of your time, or you don’t. Which is also fine, as we’ve all got bills to pay and life happening. For those who grew up filming parts and wanting to continue doing it, it’ll probably take longer than if you got to skate every day of your life. I feel like it’s almost more rewarding when it’s not your full-time job.
Might not be an all-time spot, but Adam makes it work with a ride-on switch crook     Photo Battlay
You’re one of the few Melbourne skaters that I know who owns their own home, which I find super impressive. How did you pull that off and can you give us any tips to financial
freedom?
Financial freedom? I’ve never been more in debt in my life! Nah, I think a lot of people talk about it being impossible to buy a home these days. It’s certainly hard, but saving as a couple with two incomes and having a goal to save towards makes it doable. It just takes a lot of time to save up enough for a deposit, and then a lot of stress going to auctions and shit. Glad to be on this side of it, and to be able to work on the house and not have the fear of having to look for a new place again in 12 months. These interest rate raises are pretty scary.
Favorite Australian skater?
First that comes to mind right now is Jae Overton—fast lines, tasteful mannys and he will always make you laugh.
Favorite Australian skate video?
I would have said
Part and Parcel
or
Burbs 2
or something, but Cam’s new vid
Arcadia
is pretty amazing. Have you seen it yet?
Tight lines and sketchy nose manuals are sick too    Photo: Battlay
I haven’t but I want to see it bad! Favorite fellow bespectacled skater?
Man, theres a few that come to mind: Sean Ryan, Lindsey Robertson, but probably my fave would be Dom Henry.
Favorite skater balanced on two wheels?
Shit, man, Dom could take it out again, but I’d have to say either Daewon or Bobby De Keyzer.
Precision backside flip with the hottest board in the streets
One of my favorite tricks in your part is the backside flip over the super skinny water gap. Can you take us behind that clip?
Man, what a saga, a fun one, though. That spot has been there forever, and I used to ride past it on the bike track thinking I could do something over it, but it’s so skinny. It’s just barely over a board-and-a-half width, which limits your options. Anyway, I was out skating with Paul Battlay and Max Couling, reshooting the slappy switch crook. When we were done with that and thinking about what we should do next, Paul suggested I skate the water gap. We went to check it out, and I thought maybe I could backside flip it. But James wasn’t with us that day, so we came up with a bit of a game plan, as it was a guarantee that my board would go in the water
every
shot. So the following weekend, it was on. I brought two setups, and Corey Leso brought his little blowtorch thing to dry off the landing, the grip and the tail of the board that fell in. He’s doing that while I try again on the other board and then swap them over and repeat. There were a few times when I caught the board to stop it from falling in, and I swear just that felt almost as good as making the trick! The dumb thing I did was bring two different shaped boards like an idiot—4 has been swapping across to a new shape, which was the one I prefer, so that made it hard to adjust for a different backside flip. On each attempt, I would basically try to do a backside flip along this painted line on the bike path where I was rolling in, and try to pop off and land on the line. Once I got it, I would roll in and try it. I reckon the whole saga was around three hours, which is pretty standard for me. Once I landed it, we dried out the boards a little too much until they were just smouldering dust, then we topped the afternoon off with dinner at the pub. I made sure to buy Corey a bottle of whisky the next weekend for being on the clock that long with the blowtorch. Couldn’t have done it without him.
Is flip in, flip out too much? We think it's just enough
Lastly, your ender is, as far as I know, an NBD on a handrail. I’ve also heard that it’s the only handrail you’ve ever skated. Can you tell me about it and what went into getting that trick.
Yeah, I’m a pussy when it comes to rails, but that one is so perfect for those tricks in my mind—low to get onto and mellow enough to flip out of. I skated it back in 2011 and did a back tail flip and back tail bigflip. Although looking back, I should probably have done the bigflip again, but fuck it. Anyway, we went to that area to look at another spot and Gabbers started messing around on the rail, caveman-flip boarding it and caveman crooking it, which is so gnarly. Anyway, I sussed it out again, thinking,
What else could I do?
It only has like a one-push run-up so it hasn’t been as destroyed as it could have been otherwise. Anyway, had the idea, but thought I need to dust off the cobwebs, so I started skating the small rail at City Park, as I hadn’t skated a rail in 11 years. I just wanted to build my confidence up, and eventually was like,
Let’s go!
We rode over to the rail and, of course, that’s the day they’d ripped up the entire landing—Murphy’s Law. Anyway, when they repaved the whole landing, which probably worked in my favor, we went back for me to try it. I think each session I slowly got closer, but I reckon I was jumping on that thing for around three hours each time. All up, it took three sessions, all about three hours long to make it with varying crews coming to watch each time. But Gabbers and James were there every session, which was so nice to have that consistent support through that. And when I landed it, that glory ride down that hill felt so damn good!
Adam gets the well-deserved two-by-4 pro surprise
I saw you got surprised by the guys at 4 with your pro board at the premiere of your part at Fast Times. Just wanted to say congrats! How did that all go down and how did you feel?
It was insane! They actually surprised me first thing that morning with the white-graphic board, very casually and with less hoo-haa. I was a bit startled by it all, I think—super surprised and a bit hungover. It felt quite surreal seeing my name on a board. I don’t think I gave the best reaction, ‘cause I was just stunned. Harry, Rowan and Ben had already all set the boards up. It was wild! I didn’t really know what to do with myself, just glitching out kinda. Basically they told me there were going to be boards on the wall at the premire, and they knew I’d see them then. They figured they’d surprise me earlier, so it wasn’t weird before the video played or whatever. Little did I know it was all a bloody double bluff! The video ended and I just remember everyone rushing up with boards, and I was like,
Wait, what’s going on? That’s not my board!
And then I saw it was a second board with my dog Wade on it! Everyone was screaming, cheering, handing me boards. Then Steele came out with a box of Sure Ts that he had made for the night, also with Wade on it. All a massive surprise, I was blown away. Definitely an insane moment, and more of the classic board surprise you see online. They were so stoked with the double bluff, it went off so well and I was genuinely shocked every step of the way. It felt great to share that with James after all the hard work we both put into the part. I seriously owe him everything for his patience—and you! I Wish you were there for it, Dave. After helping, shooting and organising so much of this part, it would have been so sick to share with you, too.
Thanks, Adam. Always good to chat with you and congrats on the part. We love it!
Thanks, Dave. I love you and thanks to you, James and Brett for making this all a possibility!
One more time for the people in the back, as seen in our October '23 issue of the mag. Well done, Adam!    Photo: Chami

---

Vitória’s rise through the ranks wasn’t without its setbacks.
Remember that KO that took her out off
the Scramble
? That was a serious setback. But as you know,
the last time we talked to her
, she was motivated to pick right back up. Finding her footing, she put out some of her best clips to date with an excellent pro debut video. To celebrate her promotion, she was raised high above the crowd at CPH Open, as they unveiled her first board. Homie Emanuele Barbier checks in with Element’s newest pro to talk about that day in Denmark, watching women skate from Internet cafes and her current push to broaden the boundaries of our beloved culture. Hell yeah, Vi!
Power, pop and a sample of spots you rarely see, Vitória's first video offering as a pro brings all the goods
Alright, let's hop right in—what’s your latest obsession?
I have been obsessed with front heel tails recently, but I haven’t figured out the timing yet. Everything needs to be so quick!
I can already see the style for this one. I haven’t seen you since
Wheels of Fortune
in Seattle. Can you tell me about some of your recent trips.
Yeah, that was crazy. What a time! Recently, I went to Portland before Copenhagen, then I went straight to London. Then Paris, Biarritz, Berlin and Lisbon before finally going back home to Brazil.
Casually traveling three continents in a month. Talking about CPH, you just turned pro! I finally got to tell you face to face. Congrats! What was it like?
Thank you, thank you. It couldn’t have been better. All my friends were there. My closest friends from Brazil, Vini, the THERE crew, Jeff, Rue, Maité and everyone. It was the best day of my life.
It ain't just a dream
I loved the Samba playing and everyone singing Vou Festejar. You brought Brazil to Copenhagen! Whose idea was it?
The guys at Element invited
the Brazilian musicians
and we started to sing one of my favorite songs. The vibes were so nice; it all felt incredible. The people at Element have such a good heart. They always think about us—about who we are as people, not just skaters.
I could see your smile, then I saw the graphic. A few years back, we were sharing how inspired we are by Jeff’s community work through Unity. When did you know Jeff would be doing the graphic? How do you feel about it?
I learned a few months ago but I didn’t know when it would happen. Jeff Cheung was asking me how I feel toward skateboarding and toward my friends. I said how I didn’t get all that is happening to me now by myself. Of course, I'm skating and it’s hard work, but so many people have been helping me get to where I am today. That’s why the graphic has so many hands. It represents the people who have helped me and continue to push me. Having Jeff do the graphic is so important to me. I admire him a lot. He does great things with his crew and for the community. I am beyond happy, honestly.
This is a big dream you’re achieving, turning pro for Element. What has been the reaction of your family and people back home?
It's funny because when I turned pro, I tried to call my mom. I was tearing up, showing her the board with my name on it, but she couldn’t hear me at all! It took her a long time to understand, but she was so happy and so was my big brother. My friends in Brazil were going crazy, sending me messages and calling me. I haven’t had the chance to sit down and process it yet. I need some time to realize, you know what I mean? I am pro—that’s crazy!
Big flip pivot, now
that's
crazy
Right?! You’re the second woman pro on Element after Vanessa Torres. I am curious which skaters have been inspiring you?
When I was growing up I didn't have access to a computer. I would go to these Internet cafes to watch skate videos and that’s how I started to see more girls skating. I watched
We can do it
eight years ago with Pipa Souza and Ligiane Xuxinha, who are friends of mine now. After that, I started seeing American videos and SLS recaps with Vanessa Torres, Marisa Dal Santo, Leo Baker and Alexis Sablone.
You know Marisa, right?
She is so sick! She was an inspiration, for sure. Most of my inspirations have been people close to me, though, because I admire people for who they are, not just their tricks. It makes more sense to me.
Absolutely! It also creates this support system nurturing your local scene. Though on a global scale, what does it mean to you, to create a new chapter for Element?
I'm happy and excited to do things with Element. I look forward to seeing more girls skating for them, too. I don't want to be the only girl pro for them. That also applies to other brands, too. I want to see more girls, Black girls and queer people turning pro.
Skating alongside The Gonz and multiple SOTYs, Vitória is aligned with an all-time cast in the new
Abnormal Communication
Yes, 100 percent. And that starts with involving more people on bigger projects. You’re filming in Paris right now. Can you tell me some of the projects you’re working on?
I am finishing filming for
Abnormal Communication
. I also have some friends in Brazil working on a project I will be filming for. No big part this year, but stacking clips.
Steady stacking, front tail 270 shove
Who is your go-to filming crew
?
In Brazil, I film with my friends, Gui Silva, Vini Costa, two filmers, Marcos de Souza and Luis Felipe and sometimes with Vitória Bortolo. It’s not a big crew, but that’s my crew. I like filming with a small crew because it can be stressful, especially when you’re trying a trick for two or three hours without stopping. Being in the zone and being around friends can be good, but hard. Though if I don’t have a deadline, I like to go on missions with a bigger crew.
Heelflip manny, take that to the bank
Since you're filming so much, is there a spot you really want to go to this summer?
Yeah, it’s in Rio. It’s called Plaza Mauá. It's full of ledges, gaps, stairs and the ground is so good, like the best ground. It's perfect.
On the topic of filming, your
pro part
dropped recently. Can you tell me your favorite trick in it?
My favorite trick is the opener, the bump-to-bar ollie. It was my first time skating a bump to bar and it’s so fucking high. I got there and thought,
No way. I won’t stay here. I can’t do anything here.
My friend Luis kept hyping me up. It took 30-40 minutes for me to even visualize it. I had to do a few jumps without my board. The ground was shit, too. I kept on falling on the run-up because it was just so crusty.
Fueled up to boost this bar hop
Sounds like a battle.
It was, and the security guard came to kick us out when I was almost landing. The spot was right in front of a restaurant, so we bought some food and they let us skate. We pretty much paid to skate there. It’s not the biggest trick on the video, but it was so hard and so fun for me. I learned my first bump to bar there.
That's crazy because it really doesn’t look like your first time. I love the line on the three ledges. It’s just so playful. You hit quite a few fun spots throughout the video. What kind of spots do you like skating most?
Ledges. I love ledges! Also ledges over stairs with a gap. It’s so scary but I love it. I love the process of pushing through your fear to land a trick.
I am surprised you didn’t answer bump to bar.
I want to skate more bump to bars, for sure. I need to work on my pop, though. I need more pop!
Up the ledge and over the rack, frontside heelflip
Is there anything you want to add, people you want to thank?
Yeah, I want to thank Denis from Recycle Skateboarding. When I was 12 years old, I met him through this social project and he went on to help me a lot. He had no money but he brought me and my mom to São Paulo for a contest. It was the first time I left Rio. For years, he paid for my trucks, my decks and everything. To remember him and the project when it was over, I got this tattoo that says, “Skate Ainda Constroí.” It means “Skateboarding is still being built.” It’s the opposite of “Skate and Destroy,” because he was trying to improve lives, to help people and he succeeded. He helped me and so many kids, so I want to particularly thank him.
This contrast between building and destroying is beautiful. You’re right, we are still building the spaces, the communities and the industry we are all part of. Thank you for playing a key part in that.
Whether it's building up the culture or tearing down the spot, we're rooting for her all the way. Ollie over and out    Photo: Sarmento

---

Baker’s Art Director,
rad dad AND switch slappy savant, Spanky is a modern-day renaissance man, so of course his 5 Greats is full of gold. From wack trends to things Reynolds says, this one’s crucial reading—as seen in our Jan ’22 mag.
Continuing to push himself at old haunts and fresh spots around LA, Spanky's new part is a testament to his endless creativity and drive
Dad
Skateboarder
Baker art director
I can’t remember… I’m so tired
Drawing some crap
Kutter
Shrimps
Dressen
Alexis Ross
Dylan forever
Frontside hurricane, never chill      Photo: Seidler
Kill it
Don’t be a kook
Impress the boss
Get along with the younger guys
Not boring
P-Rod
Scuba
Daniel Abadi
Me
Not one person has ever guessed correctly what it stands for
Beagle
Wheatley
Miner
Rye
Felix Soto
Q: How’d he go from boardslide to back lip? A: Wax!      Photo: Seidler
Two-hour walk with the baby every morning
Boring-ass stretching
Painful Thai massage
Curbs
Never chill
The suburbs
Not skating
Any footage of me in the ’00s
Reality TV
Out There
Crusty spots
Hand-painted signs
Best curbs
Tacos
Skate/dog/kid parks
Giving the slappy a day off with a nollie back tail kickflip
“I invented that”
“I lit this dude on fire”
“I hate that guy”
“I got a present for the baby”
“That trick was my idea”
Sully Cormier
Efron Danzig
Max Wasungu
Kanin Garner
Mingus Gamble
Kareem
Mother
Fucking
Campbell
Man
Zero Sunday, pole jam to wallride      Photo: Colen
Whitmer Thomas
Tim Robinson
Doug Lussenhop
Kevin Bradley
Mitra Jouhari
Pedro Delfino
Sean Greene
Jamie Foy
My daughter
Phelps
Angles
Double dates
Will park anywhere
Spot connoisseur
Easy boost onto a roof
Stuck to the building like a cat's claw, frontside wallride
Conspiracy theories
Videos without skaters’ names
Headphones at the skatepark
I’m okay with your corny shit if it’s not hurting anyone
Meathead Internet trolls
Knows the name of every obscure character actor
Doesn’t really warm up—straight to it
Thrill seeker when it comes to sketchy food
Good at saying “no” to stuff he doesn’t want to do
Gives real thoughtful and wise life advice
Sushi
My wife Kaysie’s cooking
Fish tacos
So much pizza
Salmon, rice and veggies
Pre-sushi switch board popover       Photo: Seidler
Neckface (lived on my couch for years)
Tino Razo
Heath Kirchart
Jay Thorpe
Beagle
Arin
Chandler Burton
Brian Anderson
Elissa Steamer
Lauren Mollica
Skateboarding
La Croix
Podcasts about movies
I Think You Should Leave
Mostly skateboarding
Baby
Baker graphics
Stopped ’cause I thought I saw a spot
Answering these questions
Photoshopping someone’s head larger
Still on fire! Lipslide to 5-0      Photo: Seidler
Los Angeles
New York
Mexico City
Catania
San Francisco
P-Rod
Jeron
T-Funk
Stevie Perez
Zach Allen
Herman
Baker 3
Greco
Baker 2G
Baca
Baker 4
Reynolds
Baker 2G
Antwuan Dixon
Baker 3
Mike Carroll
Modus Operandi
Van Wastell
Krooked Kronichles
Heath Kirchart
Sight Unseen
Jerry Hsu
Bag of Suck
Dylan Rieder
Gravis
Switch noselide 270 flip out, that's how you stay on Baker
“Do you know where this spot is?”
“Can I get your opinion on this edit?”
“I have some ideas about these graphics”
“Have you seen this new kid?!”
“Wanna meet me at this spot at 10?”
No Country for Old Men
The Long Goodbye
Escape from New York
Nightmare on Elm Street
Paris, Texas
Time flying by
Losing my phone, keys or wallet weekly
When the fun stops
Not remembering the good shit
Shaky booze legs
Frontside flip up this under-utilized Euro gap in Griffith Park       Photo: Seidler
In an elevator
Under a table on a broken champagne glass
On a hotel roof in Tokyo
Trunk of the van
In police custody
Ed Templeton
Neckface
Mike Gigliotti
Raymond Pettibon
Barry McGee
I’m alive
I get to ride my skateboard
I’m outside with my friends
Healthy, happy family
I’m in
Thrasher
!
Taking the drops in stride, Spanky Long keeps on sliding with a wallie boardslide. Now go give that part a few more views

---

Black metal is typically anti-Christian, but Bækkel still gives praise to the Madonna     Photo: Ponsero
When I first met Kevin
he was 14 years old, visiting the US from Norway by himself and communicated by barking like a dog—no words, just barks, yips and howls. Introducing him to the homies helped and he learned English quick, taking those animal instincts to the streets of LA and then all over the world. It's been crazy watching him go from grom to full-blown viking. These new video parts he’s got are insane. Crazier than barking like a dog? Maybe. The Hammer from Hamar is HEAVY! Get ready to get bit.
––Jared Cleland
Don't miss Kevin close the curtains on Creature's brutal new vid
What are you doing right now, Kevin?
Just chilling in Oslo right now, healing up from injury, trying to get back on the board. I’ve got a little room with some homies here. I’m just living with a bunch of skaters. It’s pretty chill.
How far away is it from your hometown of Hamar?
It’s an hour and 20 minutes by driving, so not too far.
What was it like when you were growing up there skating?
It was pretty cool. There was a pretty big skate scene so that’s what got me into it—going down and seeing all the people at the new skatepark that had just been built. And all those dudes are my homies to this day. That’s who I’m living with now, all the older homies from that skatepark.
Ollie in and get ready to haul ass. How do you say GX1000 in Norwegian?     Photo: Riera
So the older homies skating your local outdoor park was what sparked it for you?
Yeah, for sure. Just seeing older dudes skating and seeing how they were just hanging out, it looked like the best time ever.
And back then there weren’t that many big skaters coming out of Norway, huh?
Nah, not too many. There was Henning Braaten and Christian Brox.
Do any of those guys stick out to you as far as setting a tone for your skating?
Yeah, definitely Christian Brox. There’s a lot of inspiration from him. Every time you see him drop in on something you just gotta fuckin’ sit back and enjoy the show. It’s pretty brutal how he skates. I definitely take a lot of that into my skating. There’s a lot of rawness.
What would you do in the wintertime?
In the winter we’d just try to find places. Before we had an indoor park we’d just try to find underground spots. We'd just put a bunch of big jackets on and long underwear and end up skating in negative 30-40 degrees Celsius.
Locked in and held tight, there’s nothin’ feeble about this shit     Photo: Adler
What was up with that little indoor park that you had? When did that open up?
I think that opened up when I was 13 or 14. My parents and some other homies’ parents got together and opened it privately and made it work somehow. And they kept it open for a long time and it was right next to my house so it was like the best thing ever.
Did a lot of the skaters that you grew up with skate there, too, or had they already moved to Oslo?
Some of them were still there but most of them moved away before we even got the park because we didn’t have an indoor spot. And the scene in Oslo’s bigger. Most of them moved when I was about 13, so I was pretty much there alone.
What about in school? Did anyone hassle you for being a skater back then, or did you have some homies?
No, I had some skater homies but there were definitely older soccer dudes and hockey dudes who were always trying to give us shit.
Do you have any crazy stories about kids fucking with you? I heard a story about some kids messing with you and then leaving you in the snow, like they jacked you.
Nah, that was just a big threat. There was this tradition when people graduated. They were planning on kidnapping me and putting me in the forest but we figured out what they were trying to do and stopped it before it happened. There were a lot of fuckers in my town trying to fuck with me.
These dudes were not skaters, huh?
They were soccer players.
And you guys weren’t feeling their fuckin’ tradition.
Nah, fuck those dudes. And after they couldn’t do that shit they broke into our indoor park and broke all the Creature boards because they thought they were mine.
Oh my God, that’s fucked up. They had to get you one way or another, huh?
Yeah.
That was around the time you started coming out to the US. What was it like when you flew here for the first time and came to Phoenix, AZ?
That was a pretty crazy experience. There was a skate contest called Wild in the Parks, and I skated one of those in Norway and that qualified me into the European finals thing. It was a 14-and-under contest. I did good in the European one so they sent me out to the States to skate the one in Phoenix. It was less than a week apart and they’re like,
Alright, if you want to go to the States we got you right now, next weekend
, and I’m like,
What the fuck?
Only Muska’s jambox on the stairs could make this noseslide any sicker     Photo: Ponsero
That’s crazy. So what, you just flew solo all the way to Phoenix?
Yeah, pretty much. There were some of the Volcom dudes there but I was pretty much solo. They put me in a room with a dude that didn’t speak English at all. So I couldn’t talk to him. We were doing Google Translate on the computer down in the lobby to talk to each other.
But you couldn’t really speak English either. The first time I met you, you were like a dog who would just bark and we were like,
Damn, this homie is fuckin’ sick
.
I was pretty fried on my English. I couldn’t really talk much, just a little bit. But yeah, I’d just walk around the hotel and fuck with everybody, just barking to see people’s reactions.
I think we met you in the park skating and then we fuckin’ went out to dinner that night to Hooters and you were barking. Do you remember barking in Hooters and almost getting kicked out?
Yeah, you guys fired me up with the barking thing so I started barking at the Hooters waitresses. Then the manager came out just screaming at me.
Gettin' buck is the international language. Drop in, pop over the stopper
That was so funny. I was like, “He doesn’t speak any English. I’ll tell him to stop barking.” They thought you were barking at the waitresses or something.
I was definitely a little lost in the States at that point. I was so young.
Well, you were 14 out here solo and just making do with what you had.
I met you guys, so you guys took care of me.
A couple of months later you came out to LA and started to stay with the homies. You pretty much started living with me for three months on and three months off. What was that like?
That was crazy. I got an invite from you guys to come over and I just went for it. Since then I’ve just been going back and forth ’til now pretty much.
We were both about 15 at the time. Were you still going to school?
Yeah, I was going to school in Norway at that time.
What’s up with school in Norway? At what age do you stop going? When you moved out here you started doing the US home-schooling, right?
Yeah, so I did the Norwegian schooling and you can stop when you’re 15 or 16. After that it’s up to you what you want to do. Then I went and stayed with you and I tried to do independent studies on the Internet so I could stay out there skating.
How did that go? What was it like all of a sudden doing school in a different language?
It was so fucked. I tried to do my best but I definitely didn’t do too well.
Your mom came out to my house and set it up and I don’t think you even did one assignment.
I did a couple but I definitely had some help from you and some of the other homies. But that was my good excuse to get to the States. It was like,
If you’re going over there you gotta do some school
. And I was like,
Yep, I’ll do it
.
Coming out and living in LA at such a young age, how did that shape your skating? Did it change it?
Yeah, kinda. When I got there I was looking at all these videos and then actually going to those spots and seeing how gnarly shit actually was. It was like,
Dude, shit is fucking crazy. Everyone over here in the States is on such another level of skating—way more consistent with skating bigger shit
. At home I was pretty much just skating parks. I’d never really go out and skate street like you guys did in the States, so that was a whole new thing for me. But it was super sick.
Were the spots rougher or were they just bigger than what you were used to?
No, it was definitely cleaner spots but they’re just way bigger than they look in the videos. Just going to some rails and shit and you’re like,
Whoa, holy shit; this is gnarly
.
How was your English back then? What was it like basically being in a whole different world?
It was definitely weird but I had you guys around and that for sure helped me out. But like going to restaurants and shit, I’d have a hard time ordering because it was like,
You want a beverage?
And I’m like,
What the fuck is a beverage? Is that a side or something?
Is it blasphemy to eat noodles by a church? Kevin couldn't care less either way
Americans always have to throw some special lingo in there to throw you off.
Yeah, so it was definitely hard in the beginning. But I feel like I picked it up pretty quickly after actually staying there for months at a time.
I remember not long after you started coming out here, a lot of people would confuse you as an American when we were in Europe. What was that like? You got any funny stories?
I used to have a fake ID from the States and I’d run it here and just try to speak American to go to the bars. And it worked. They’re just like,
Where are you from?
And I’d be like,
I’m from California
. I’d show them the ID and they’re like,
Alright, you’re chilling
. I was 16 and the ID said I was 25.
Do you think when you have time away from the US, when you come back you’re rejuvenated so you’re ready to go on a rampage and skate while you’re there?
For sure. Every time I come out to the States I’m way too hyped.
I feel like that’s one of the best parts about
not
living here, is when you visit you get to skate all these new spots and you have a fresh outlook on the whole scene.
That’s like the best thing, yeah. I know you guys always go to all the same stuff but there’s always new shit when I get there—or new places and new little cities to go to, so it definitely gets me juiced up.
What about traveling around Europe?
The last couple of years I’ve been traveling a lot in Europe—Spain, Italy, Finland, Sweden, Denmark.
What’s your favorite place other than the US to go skate and film?
Australia. I been there three times now and it’s always the best time. They’ve got so many cool spots.
It kinda sucks that Australia is super locked down right now. But Norway’s pretty strict, too. Has it been a struggle to try to film your Emerica and Creature video parts with all of the travel restrictions?
It’s definitely been hard. The first year was only in Norway—just traveling around and going to all these little cities trying to find spots that we haven’t seen before. But it’s always hard in Norway ’cause not that many people have a car. We always just go with the Metro or the train and skate around. But that year we got to drive around a little bit more and definitely found a lot of stuff. But it’s harder here, for sure.
When he's not slaying slopes, he's down to get vertical. Needle-threaded wallride backside grab
How does it work out there if you need to fix up a spot since it’s harder to bring stuff with you?
Right before the COVID shit started I went on Google Maps and found like 100 spots and I went and checked every single one of them to see if they were good. So I’d just spend my days taking the tram or the buses around, just going to look at stuff and then figure out what I would need to bring with me to fix the spot if it needed fixing.
I feel like you’re secretly a Google Maps guru—you’re on a whole different level. Or like you’re a Google Earth guy ’cause of the size of rails you skate. What’s it like when you find a rail on Google Maps and then you go check it out? Does it normally work out?
Sometimes it works out. There’s just so many hours of lurking and then you find certain things. But yeah, most of the times they’re actually good or can get fixed to be able to skate it. It usually works out, but sometimes it’s just fucked—like it’s way too gnarly or just way too tall or some shit like that.
Do you like finding stuff on Google Maps or do you like seeing a spot while you’re in the van and hopping out to skate it?
I kinda like both. Just finding new shit, it’s fun as shit. Finding stuff that no one’s ever skated before, that’s the best thing.
When you’re skating a spot that no one has ever touched, how do you go about approaching it?
Rolling up 1,000 times first, at least. Nah, if there’s an opportunity to actually get on it—if you’re talking about a rail—and jump off and not get fucked up then you can test out anything. So the process is pretty much doing that for a little while and just getting confident.
You and I will watch snowboard and rollerblading videos together and you’ll hit up the rider and ask them for spots.
I do that shit all the time. When I see a spot I’ll just send anyone a fuckin’ message and ask them where it is. Most the times they send the pin so it’s pretty sick. Yeah, snowboarders, skiers, BMXers, bladers.
And it works out; they kinda back it. And there’s a lot of snowboarders out in Norway and a bunch of them also skate, huh?
Yeah. Usually when I ask them they’re super nice and give me the pin, then they’ll ask if I have some and I’ll send them some spots so it goes both ways. It’s pretty sick.
I feel like that opened up new doors in my mind. Every time I watch a snowboard video I’m always pausing it and taking screenshots, ’cause those dudes can do some gnarly rails.
Yeah. And they find some good ones, too. They’re hunting on a different level.
Back board, never mind the gap     Photo: Ponsero
Do you think you could do a bigger rail on your snowboard or on your skateboard?
Fuck, I’m not sure. It depends. But I have done a big one on a snowboard. There’s fuckin’ snow on each side so fuckin’ ride it out. But doing kinks on a snowboard—that’s some gnarly shit.
So what’s it been like filming lately since you’re not in the van with the crew?
It’s definitely been a little harder. Being in the van is the funnest thing ever. Going out here has been more like finding something and then just going and doing it—that kind of thing. It’s not just driving around hoping you’re gonna find something. It’s been more like,
Alright, I’m gonna skate this spot, this spot and this spot
.
So it’s a little more strategic.
Yeah, it’s a bit more planned out. But I got to spend some time in Spain with my homie Jack Thompson. He got a little minivan so we got to rip around in that thing.
Jack’s the man. It seemed like you skated some crazy spots in Barcelona that most people don’t really see when they go there. Is that all Jack?
Yeah, Jack is the fuckin’ spot guru down there. He knows where everything is and he keeps finding stuff all the time. The two of us will sit at his apartment in Barcy and just lurk Google Maps for hours and we just find shit.
Nosepick yank into the bank, the Hammer from Hamar is always dropping hammers     Photo: Truong
What’s it like handling two parts at once? What’s your process?
I’ve just been filming—just going around trying to stack whatever I can get. That’s pretty much been the process.
So what’s up with this Emerica video? Do you know who you’re paired up with?
I think it’s gonna be me, Winkowski and then the new guy on Emerica—the homie Chris Wimer. I think there’s also going to be a team montage. I think it’s gonna be sick.
I think it’s cool that Emerica has been pairing up riders when their footage is ready. It seems like less pressure than waiting on a whole team video.
Yeah, I like those little shorter videos that just focus on a couple people and then have a team edit. I think the Creature video is gonna be kind of the same style.
Through kinks and caps, Kevin can't be stopped. Backside 50-50 to box bash
How long have you been working on these two projects?
I’ve probably filmed for both of them for about two years. But we didn’t really know what was going towards what—I’ve just been stacking footage and now I’m trying to divide it into two parts.
With it being winter in Norway now, how are you gonna approach the deadlines for these two projects?
Well, I was hurt for like four months and then I got to skate a little bit over the summer and now I’m hurt again, so I’m just trying to heal up from this injury so I can get at least one more month of filming. I’m just doing my physical therapy on my ankle so hopefully I can get some time before the deadline.
Are you gonna come out to the US?
The US is opening now, so yeah—I’m coming straight there. I haven’t been there in about a year. Once my ankle’s good, I’m there on the first flight.
Dope. Well I’m looking forward to seeing you again.
Yeah, fuck—miss you big time.
Fuckin’ love you, Kev.
Love you too, man. I can’t stay this long away from you.
Alright, well I guess we’ll just end it there then and let you hit the bar. Cheers, man.
Peace.
Front Smith on home turf, there’s a throne waiting for Bækkel in Valhalla for damn sure     Photo: Truong

---

What’s good, brother?
Yo, Willis. I’m chillin’. I just got back to Oslo from a Suvalahti Hellride in Helsinki.
How are they holding it down out there right now?
They’re holding it fucking down. They just added a couple of new features. It’s the best place on Earth. Love that place.
Your summer has been pretty stocked of harpooning spots around the world. Where have you been since we were on the Creature Northwest trip?
We did the whole US to Rip Ride Rally, then out to Copenhagen, Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, home for a day or two then inland to Bristol, over to Turbo Island.
Fuck up on this and you might need the parking spot at the bottom. Frontside 50-50, make ‘em sing
Photo: Papke
Would you rather spend a night in Burnside or Turbo Island?
Fucking Turbo Island, for sure. They got Stellas right around the corner.
How was the Rip Ride Rally? Anything insane happen there?
It was fucking sick as fuck. Skated too much, having a good time seeing the homies rip. They fucking killed it and went camping every night. High energy seeing Cory Juneau blasting and killing himself.
That was kinda gnarly. The walking seizure.
That was a scary moment. Two hours later we picked him up and he was chilling.
He did the noseblunt not even thinking about it.
He pulled it.
What’s up with prying some dude’s mouth open in Germany?
We pried some dude’s mouth open walking back from the bar, me and you. Four or five in the morning, some random fucking dude’s friends weren’t taking care of him so we had to come to the rescue. Pulled his mouth open so he wouldn’t swallow his tongue ODing on MDMA or whatever else he had in his system. He was biting our nails off.
It’s gonna take more than a curb to keep Bækkel from pillaging your spots. Frontside 5-0, hope that glass is thick
Photo: Griffiths
How did the cop help you out?
Oh yeah, he helped me a lot! He punched me in the face while I was helping him.
I remember him yelling at you to get your fingers out of his mouth and you couldn’t because he was biting so hard, then he just socked you.
Socked me in the face and I was about to get him back but you saved me from jail that night.
What kind of skating have you been watching while you’ve been filming for this savage ass part you’re working on?
Mostly older shit, some Grant and Cardiel. Been watching footage from Christian Brox, like a good morning routine. Powerful Norwegian skating will always get me fired up in the morning.
Fuck yeah, we need Brox in the Creature van.
Oh yes. I need Brox every day in my life.
I’ve heard you say that before.
He’s a busy guy but he can hang out here and there.
Do you think you’ve grinded a kilometer or a mile for this part?
Probably a kilometer.
You know what a mile is, right? It’s just a little more than a kilometer.
Fuck, I’ve done a mile then. I thought a mile was a little less. With all of the tries, definitely grinded a mile.
Frontside nosegrind on his way to the one-mile marker
Photo: Seidler
You’ve grinded a lot of bars keeping the fire lit.
Gotta do what I can do. The same trick, just gotta stay on those grinds.
Have you ever built a fire before?
I’ve built a couple. I like to start with a small one then go hunting to make the biggest one. Every time we have a fire, it’s always the mission to make it the biggest one possible—whatever it takes.
I’ve noticed that. Is there a Viking oath you took about gathering firewood or something?
It’s the Viking inside of me. I just want to burn shit down.
The metal in your blood wants to jump into the flames?
Yeah, or push Russell through it with all of my power.
That fire we had in Bristol was pretty rad.
We were there for three hours skating and we heard all of these rumors about them building huge fires, throwing bottles at cops and shit. I was, like,
Fuck it
, found some paper and started burning it then it escalated from there.
Is it true that you Norwegians shave and wipe with your axes?
Yeah, it’s pretty practical. It stings a little bit but usually works out.
The letter you have in your last name, the a-e thing, are you down with that or is it a pain in the ass?
What is that?
The double-letter fucking thing, the a-e thing in your name.
Oh, the æ? I love that shit. People are, like, the æ thing looks stupid. I like the Norwegian letters. Mixed in together is what makes my name legit. The US doesn’t use those letters.
Smashing tricks together like letters in his name—50-50 to front board
Photo:
Seidler
We have the wrong keyboards over here.
I’m going to send you one of those little pieces from my keyboard so you can put it on.
I’ll be bashing that in, looking for your part on
Thrasher
in a few weeks. I love when we get you into the American countryside for long enough that you turn a little hick and start writing Rednækkel. It looks good like that.
Rednækkel is still going. I got this lumberjack flannel still so I’ve been running it. That’s what got me into it.
Full bore—the PBR hat, the flannel. I didn’t even recognize you with your song requests. I was, like,
Who is this dude?
I don’t know that dude either. He comes out here and there but that’s about it.
I don’t think Bækkel and Rednækkel have ever been in the same room at the same time.
No, they haven’t. They’re not friends.
They argue about who collected more firewood.
I think Rædnekkel is leading pretty hard, though.
What was it like the last time you went to Burnside?
We had a good session. I always love going there and cruising around to try and figure out the lines. After the session we thought this dude was climbing a huge crane for the shit of it and then we realized he was trying to commit suicide. We were there for three hours watching this dude about to kill himself. We couldn’t leave either because they taped the whole area off. We were trying to figure out if we should watch it or not. It was weird. I’ve seen some suicide jumpers before but this time I thought it was going to go down. If he jumped he would’ve landed right in front of us. It was pretty gnarly.
It was pretty rad, though. They talked him down.
Glad I didn’t have to see that. If he jumped he would’ve been extremely close to us. We would’ve seen some splatter all over the ground.
You get to cruise all over the world with DAF Noah driving everywhere. He’s probably driven us the distance of the circumference of the world in the last little bit.
He’s driven me from Norway to the States and back a couple of times already, for sure.
What’s your dream spot, the dream destination? Anything you’re fiending to go to eventually?
Fuck, I want to go everywhere but I would like to go back to Australia. They got the good rails out there. They don’t have the aluminum shit out there. They have the old good-sounding rails that scream back at you when you get onto them. Pretty much anywhere else I’m down to go to. I want to see it all.
Hellacious 50-50 yank into the bank, see you in Valhalla
Photo: Griffiths
We should get some sort of halloumi tour going.
Cypress or what?
That would be a good idea, to go to Cypress and eat some halloumi.
I’m down to do a halloumi tour.
We could even use it for wax and sunscreen. How did you end up on your first Creature trip?
That was in Copenhagen when I think I was 18 or 19. It was Al Partanen, Gravette, Noah, Milton and Truman. My good homie Rune Wonder kept going up to Noah and telling him I was going to go mental, no matter what. I was, like,
Whatever
. He was just bantering to Noah every day. I’m standing in the corner just trying to get Rune to chill out. I wanted to go but don’t be so gnarly about it. Last day in Copenhagen, Al went up to Noah and told him that I should take his spot, that I could sleep in his bed. He didn’t care. He wanted to bring me. Noah came up to me and told me if I was in Berlin at ten the next morning, I could come on the trip. I got myself a ticket and was there when they landed. I thought I was only going to be on the trip for a couple of days but I was on it for a whole month. It was one of the best trips I’ve ever been on.
That’s so sick. That’s how it should be.
Then right after that trip was done, Noah told me if I ever wanted to come to the States to stay with him and film, I was more than welcome. Three weeks later I took him up on his word and stayed there for three months, staying at his place to film for the Creature video.
It’s a beautiful story.
Noah took me in. I lived with him for almost a whole year.
You were in Santa Cruz for a minute and he was cruising with you. You guys were nailing it, trench-warfare team.
He showed me the ropes, brought me to the good spots.
You’ve gotten to see more of the States than most Americans, that’s for sure.
Fuck yeah, I’ve been to 38 states.
Rednækkel saddles up for a Smith through the kink. Yeehaw!
Photo: Enis
You and I have polished a pack of Yuengling in the back of some southerners’ truck for crying out loud!
Warm Yuenglings in the back of some dudes truck in Florida at six in the morning. Every sip I almost had to puke because they were so warm but we had to handle all of them. The best was sitting in the back of the truck and the guy was going to work.
He hit us with the, “Out of the truck, boys.” “Yes, sir.” That was a funny one.
Oh, for sure.
Who do you see that’s ripping that we don’t see? I wouldn’t call them underdogs—maybe young rippers or sneak attacks.
We got some sneak attackers in Norway who are gnarly. My homie Galex Tennison, he just got on Emerica in Norway. He’s fucking ripping, good old hardflips and frontside flips down some big stairs. We got Vincent.
Ulph too.
Of course, my dog! Fucking Ulph Andersson is gnarly as fucking fuck.
He’s an attack-mode hyena.
I saw him for the first time ten years ago and he’s always been ripping so hard but now he’s a machine. He can handle pain; he never stops.
He might be a good guy for you to collect firewood with.
Oh yeah, definitely down to collect firewood with him, for sure.
Gonna have to call the overlords at Creature about this halloumi tour and make sure Ulph brings these fire-gathering supplies.
We should go to Sweden and burn that shit down.
Kevin takes his boardslide from the house of design all the way to the telecommunications center
Photo: Griffiths
You’re gonna have to ask Ulph and Oski about that one.
Just a little bit. We’re only going to burn some of it down.
Do you want to explain what happened right after we didn’t win
King of the Road
?
With the table shit?
Yeah, the whole torture night.
Right when everything was done, Russell and I were, like, let’s break the table with all of the trophies on it and shit. We both stood on it and tried to break it but it didn’t go so I jumped as high as I could to try to break it. I don’t know what the fuck cut me. It could’ve been one of the trophies or a bottle of wine that shattered but I sliced my finger really, really bad. It was hanging off and squirting blood so I had to go straight to the hospital. One of the
Thrasher
dudes brought me to the hospital and they told me I had to sit down and wait. My finger is hanging off. I need to get this thing back on before it’s too late. I get into the emergency room and I ask the lady if it’s bad. She told me it was really bad so they cleaned it all up, put the shots in so I couldn’t feel the pain and told me she would be back in ten-to-15 minutes. I wake up and they’re shaking me. I’m on the ground ’cause I passed out and fell. There’s the biggest pile of blood on the ground from my finger and she’s asking me if I’m okay. I’m fine. I sit back up in the chair and they start stitching me up. I ask why the fuck I’m so wet and I pissed myself too.
You were on a killing spree.
It was fucked. I think I had an allergic reaction to the numbing shots they gave me because they use other shit in Norway. It just knocked me out. They stitched me up, drove me back to the Creature Airbnb and partied there. I was fucking with you a little bit, my finger all wrapped up like a boxing glove, then you thought I was gonna hit you and you gave me a good old sock. Fucking snapped my nose.
I’m sorry about that one. I thought you were going to nail me.
I understand that shit happens. It’s all good.
They set that thing back in pretty nicely though.
They set my nose back in with some duct tape to keep it straight. It’s straight as fuck now so it’s big chillin’.
That was rough seeing you on the stairs with the duct-tape face and the hand. Talk about insult to injury. Second place, broken everything. We’ll get it next time.
It’s a good story. I’m hyped it went down like that.
Terror-inducing top-tier tail drop—that Viking blood is no joke!
Photo: Palozzolo
It felt like we were back on
King of the Road
for a few seconds. Any last second shout outs or anything? This is your last chance before it’s forever solidified in print.
Shout out to Creature for making me a part of this whole shit. It’s been four years and it’s been so good—the trips, a solid crew, it’s good fucking times.
Let’s keep the fire burning and keep the firewood coming.

---

Photos: Ben Colen
What’s up, Sebo? What are you doing right now?
Just walking back from a coffee shop. I usually start the morning painting. I got back to LA from the East Coast yesterday, so I’m just chillin’.
Is Sebo short for Sebastian?
Yessir.
Why do you go by Sebo?
I’ve been getting Sebo my whole life. I think it was a nickname that my parents gave me and it just stuck. Every year that passed, more people just knew me as that. I’m pretty sure a lot of people don’t know my real name is Sebastian, but at what point do you change to your real name after you’ve had a nickname for the past 25 years? Close friends will call me by Sebastian but Sebo just stuck.
Get outta the van and into the dungeon! Sebo, second-story nollie flip Photo: Muller
How’s the van life? Are you still in it?
No, I’m not. I'd still like to have the van because it was nice to not pay rent, but it was just really old. I lived in it for four years. It was a 1994 Chrysler Town & Country, so it has seen its days. I kept putting money into it and it started to be no longer worth it. Problem after problem came up and I was traveling as well in between, so it would just sit. With cars that are really old, things just happen—anything from the battery being dead or the tire being flat. At some point I told myself that if I turned pro I would allow myself to get a place. Things worked out and my fiancé moved here, so we share a studio over in Venice now. I do miss the freedom of living in a van, though.
Do you still have it?
I don’t. I donated it a couple months ago to a breast cancer charity. They picked it up, took it apart and sold all of the parts in an auction. It seemed like the right thing to do. I couldn’t sell it; it was just sitting here taking up space.
The no comply double flip needs a good nickname. How about the Blastin' Sebastian?
How long have you been pro?
It’s been a little over a year and a half. I turned pro January 7, 2016. I turned pro in a bowling alley. It was a dream come true to go pro for Krooked.
And how did you get on Lakai?
I used to get shoes from a rep through the shop I rode for in Oregon, Exit Real World. I took a ride to California about ten years ago with just a backpack, putting off going to college to chase the dream. When I was down here, I was running out of shoes and I didn’t have very much money. I was just roughing it, trying to make it happen. I remembered trying to get those promo shoes and making the connection. I’m pretty sure it was this girl named Anne that worked at Podium that I got in contact with and told her my situation. They thought it was cool that I made the effort to come down here and make something happen, so they started sending me shoes directly. Federico happened to be the TM at the time and he started hooking me up. Him and Roger Bagley were trying to get me out with the crew. They really looked out for me.
So how does it feel to be one of the older veterans now?
It’s funny—all of a sudden a bunch of time has passed. I had to sacrifice a lot and close a bunch of doors, like going to college. I just hope I can be a positive influence on the new guys.
Fifteen video parts later and Sebo's still on fire. Boosted backside flip at Dorsey Banks.  Photo: Hammeke
When you're on the road, are you in the party van or the chill van?
I’m usually in the chill van because a lot of time on trips, there’s sessions I really want to be on point for. I’m hard on myself if I’m not filming or being productive. I’m all about getting the trick, then celebrating afterwards. I’ve been in both vans and I’m not super particular about either, but I’m mostly in the mellow one.
Who's your road dog?
It’s changed a lot over time because the Lakai team has changed quite a bit. But it bounces around. I used to room with Daniel Espinoza or Jon Sciano quite a bit. I’ve roomed with Carroll a couple times. It just depends on the trip. Some people are in more of a party mode and others are in a go-to-bed-early mode. Everyone is on a similar page so you know where you’re going to be. But I always try to room with somebody different. That way you get to know your teammates better.
You had a full part in Lakai’s
The Flare
. How long did you film for it?
For a long time: three-and-a-half years. There was a lot of changes with the team, so it took a bit longer than we hoped for. At the same time, we’re happy with it; it came out pretty solid.
Is this your first part in a major video?
I guess for a major video. I’ve had something like 15 video parts, but most of them were before the Internet age. It wasn’t like nowadays where a part comes out immediately.
When they sat everyone down and informed you guys that they were making a video, were you stressing?
No, I was super stoked.
It ain't Firestone but still looks pretty tough. Backside noseblunt with a view
How did you approach filming for the video?
I always come up with a list of tricks and spots. Personally, I like to film in a small chunk of time so it feels fresh. I felt a lot of my part was old and I could do better, but everyone is their own worst critic. But again, I’m still really happy with how it came out.
Did they designate who was and wasn’t getting full parts or did you automatically get one if you filmed enough?
They told us they were making a video, so after a while they checked back to see how much footage we had. They didn’t say who was going to have their own part or share one. it was just based on how much footage you had.
Did you choose your song?
Federico and I were keeping in touch, sending songs to each other. We were listening to a lot of old hip-hop. At some point he was riding his Vespa and De La Soul came on. I wanted something along those lines, and he pictured it. I came over, saw my part with the song and we were collectively stoked on it.
'Sup with the redneck kit in a few of the clips, the bandana and speedies?
The first clip was a couple years ago before the speed shades got popular. We were at a gas station and I tried that kit on. Federico was just laughing super hard and I think he bought it for me. We were at a spot and I was just joking around, wearing that kit. Federico loved it and told me to land a trick and then beam the camera. It was a joke but it was super funny and we put it in the part.
What was the hardest trick for you to land?
The backside noseblunt at Firestone, just 'cause of how hard that spot is to skate. I was coming from the higher side, the tranny was hard to get used to and I was pushing to it. That was a four-or-five-hour battle.
Anything get away from you?
Yeah, a lot. I tried to nollie backside flip the Santa Monica triple set. I landed on it every try, but I would slip out or stick and get bodied to the point where I couldn’t keep going. I walked away from it extremely sore with cut-up hands. I went back seven times trying to get it.
What was your favorite trip filming for the video?
I went on a lot, but my favorite was the Berlin/Poland trip. We had a really good crew, productive days and amazing weather. I'd never been there before and there were tons of unique spots.
What kind of art are you doing these days?
I’ve been doing grip-tape art, which has become really popular these days, with colorful grip and all that. I hand paint all of them. I gotta figure out a better way to mass produce or sell it or something. I enjoy doing it, but it’s a lot of work. If I could come up with ideas and print a ton, that would be pretty cool. I get to connect with a ton of kids. They can tell me exactly what they want.
College can wait, but this nollie back heel? Yeah, we're gonna need that now   Photo: Muller
Do you turn a profit from grip art or does it just even out with the cost of materials?
It’s a little bit of both. I think there is profit but I run it through Paypal and it only pays for so much—little things add up here and there. Luckily I get hooked but by Boardstix, which is a paint-pen company and by Mob, who’s been my grip sponsor forever. If it was on a bigger scale I would be able to make a lot more from it, but at the same time, I can directly communicate with kids that request grip. If I go to a random place, someone can tell me, “You did grip for me,” and have this connection outside of skating in terms of art. I don’t really keep track of how much profit I make, though.
What’s next now that the
The Flare
is done?
I think I’m just going to keep working on stuff with Krooked. It’s getting towards the end of the filming for the
Pump on This
video with Sk8rats. We’re thinking about putting out a Walker video with Kyle, Dominick, Walker Ryan and myself. We’ve been talking about that one forever, maybe get it in the works. I’d like to try to do more one-minute parts, every month or so. I want to be more productive.

---

So I heard you broke your dick trying this switch backside bigspin. What happened?
I was at this god damn Bust or Bail contest trying to get buck before the triple-set session started happening. Shit was going crazy. The line started getting shorter to try the trick. It was seriously, like, only 100 feet or something. I was trying that for a bit because I thought I had it. On one try, it didn’t turn and go full big spin. I landed on the nose and my board popped up and hit me right in the choad area and fucked my urethra up! Fucked me up!
Did it explode? Was there blood everywhere?
No, it was just kinda bleeding. It was in the middle of the contest and everyone was jumping down the stairs so I grabbed my crotch and ran off for a sec to check it. It didn’t hurt like getting kicked in the nuts or anything. I got hit in the nut area but it didn’t pop one of my balls, thank God! It hurt when it happened but it didn’t hurt when I was skating. So I kept skating but then I started feeling this drip in my crotch area. I had black pants on so I didn’t even know it was happening. It still didn’t hurt so I kept skating but then it got to a point where that whole area was just super wet and I had to stop.
So how long did you have to pee into a bag?
It was only about two weeks.
Were you skating with the bag?
No, I wasn’t skating with the bag. I couldn’t because I had a catheter through my dick so there was no way.
So how long does it take you to pee now?
Oh my God! After the urethra injury I didn’t keep the catheter in long enough to heel right, so now I have this thing called urethra restructure. Basically I have scar tissue inside my urethra that blocks it up. It’s like a pinch in the urethra. My urinary tract gets blocked up and it takes, like, five minutes to piss.
Taking this “Go kill thyself” mantra pretty seriously. Macho tail drop in LA.
Photo: HAMMEKE
It takes you a full five minutes to take a piss?!
It just drips out: drip, drip, drip, drip.
It fucking sucks.
Is this permanent?
No, I just need to go get another surgery and it’ll fix it up. I’ll go do it after the video is done.
That’s commitment! But you went back and got it.
Yeah, I had to go let that double set know it didn’t take me out like that. I ain’t no ho! It was a fluke. I knew it was a fluke and when that happens you gotta go back and let them motherfucking spots know you ain’t no bitch!
You weren’t nervous about it?
No, because I knew it was a fluke. It took me about an hour and a half of jumping down it. It was crazy because I did it and was on my last try. I told everyone there, “This is it,” and then that was the make. It was great. I was on my last limb or whatever. I was so done with trying it and then—boom—knocked that motherfucker out!
Unlike taking a piss, it only took Windsor about a second to do this
hurricane
Photo: HAMMEKE
So you’ve been sponsored for about half of your life. It’s been a long road with some ups and downs. You’re definitely on a upswing right now. I think you’re skating better than ever and you just turned 30. What lit this new fire under your ass?
Well, I’ve just been skating for a long time now and you go through phases of trying to find the fire. There are constant ups and downs. It’s high for a while then it slows down—then you charge back up. I’m at a point where I feel like I’m skating as good as I possibly can or have ever. I don’t know where that came from. It feels like I’ve just been getting better at skating so that’s been fueling the fire, for sure. When you’re progressing it’s always fun.
It’s one of those things where you don’t fall out of love with it; it’s just phases of ups and downs. Is that what you mean?
Yeah, I always wanted to maintain a stable skateboard career but you know there are still the times when you go through ruts, but the past couple years I’ve just been enjoying skating for myself and that helps stoke the fire. I’m learning new shit so that makes it even better. There was a time when I felt like I wasn’t getting any better and that gets old: doing the same shit over and over.
You think any of that has something to do with moving to LA?
When I was in SD that wasn’t the problem. Los Angeles is just a new lifestyle for me. Just to put it into perspective, there are just more skate spots out here than a lot of other places. There’s only so much to skate in Denver or SD. It seems like there are just countless amounts of spots in LA right now. If you want to maintain a skateboard career, I’d say you would want to move to LA. The opportunity spot-wise is enough but it’s also a mecca for skateboarding right now with all the companies that are here. I just thought it was time to move to where all the gold is! Move to where it’s all happening for once. It’s been a good move for me. I’ve been skating my ass off and it’s been fun.
Windsor returned to the San Diego Sports Arena to show it he ain’t no ho.
Switch backside bigspin
, no fluke.
Sequence: DOMINICK
I met you 15 years ago in Colorado on a Ghetto Child trip. How old were you when you started getting sponsored?
I think I was 15 or 16. I started skating when I was 13. I started later than some of the dudes that had been skating for ages like Angel Rameriz and David Reyes, but it was three years after that, I think. Darkstar was when I was 15 or 16, I think.
Tell the story about how we met up with you on that trip and are you better at not losing stuff now?
I didn’t lose the tape! Ha! I was skating this spot called Denver Tech Center. It’s the spot with the two 12-stair hubbas in a row. My homie Ryan must have forgot the tape and left it on the hubbas. Then you guys ran across it the next day on that Ghetto Child trip. It’s pretty crazy how things happen. You guys took it to 303, I think, and asked if they knew me and they gave you my number and we went out skating that night and for the next couple of days. We went and skated that little VA rail that night, right?
Yeah, do you remember what trick you did that night?
I think I did a kickflip front board and maybe a few other things. I don’t remember, really.
The Ghetto child TM Benny was stoked and sponsored you right after that, right? Was Ghetto Child your first sponsor?
Benny started sending me Ghetto Child stuff right after that. I’m not sure if I was fully on Darkstar yet. I had some rep flow stuff happening and 303 already had my back. Shouts out to 303! They were the first ones to put a nigga on!
Did you finish school or did you drop out and move to California to skate?
I dropped out my senior year like an idiot. I moved out to California to skate. In school I was just doing packet classes because I was traveling so much around 11th and 12th grade. It’s crazy when you’re young and these companies want to take you on trips around the world. It’s hard to give a fuck about staying in school. When you get to go to Australia and they give you a little money instead of sitting in some shitty classroom, it’s not a choice. I was just six credits shy of graduating. It was just an idiot move. My mom wanted me to finish but everything that was happening was a dream come true for me, so as much as I wanted to finish for my mom and everything I had to follow my dream. Seemed like a once-in-a-lifetime chance. School is important but I just never went back to finish the credits. Maybe I’ll go finish for my mom someday soon!
Did you need to get out of Colorado Springs? Who was that friend of yours you used to talk about all the time?
You guys would get in some shit together, right? Lots of DUIs, trouble with the courts, right?
I had a couple partners out there! My homeboy Dean and Darrell. We weren’t getting into all kinds of trouble. I just got a DUI and it ended up being a pain in the ass for a few years. It’s not like—well, fuck yeah I was getting into trouble but we weren’t gang banging or doing any real criminal activities. My mind just wasn’t dead set on skating at that time. I got a little sidetracked, but that shit happens when you’re young, you know.
So it wasn’t a matter of
needing
to move.
No, I didn’t have to move but this is where—kids, this is where you come to pursue a skateboarding career. It was better that I left, for sure.
Fueling the fire with a
kickflip noseslide
. Trump that!
Photo: ADAMS
The industry got their hands on you at a pretty young age, like we talked about. From what I saw, skateboarding and the people in it definitely helped raise you. Do you think that was for better or worse?
Well, I mean it’s a fifty/fifty, a coin toss, yin and yangs or whatever! There is good and bad to it all. For the better, for sure. I got to experience so many different things just from traveling at a young age that it was worth it. I wouldn’t change anything. Maybe it exposes you to some crazy shit at an early age but it was mostly all good! Meeting new people and seeing different cultures is worth more to me than any diploma.
How do you think traveling has shaped your world view? You’re voting for Trump, right?
Bullshit! I’ve got to give it to Hillary, though. That’s it; that’s all we got! Who the fuck else are we going to vote for? We can’t put that guy in. It’s ridiculous. Every time I see this guy on TV for the campaigns and shit I’m asking myself, “Is this real? This motherfucker?” It’s like a joke to me. Might as well run Kim Kardashian or—fuck, anyone can run now. I might try in 2020. Why not?!
You’ve been with Jamie Thomas for the long haul. Has Jamie mellowed with age at all? We’ve all heard the stories about how intense he was to work with back in the day—and give me a real answer not a politically-correct one.
Ha! Yeah, he’s mellowed for sure. That fool’s crazy but I love him. He’s always helped me out. I guess Jamie likes my skating so that gets me stoked. He’s a fucking legend, you know, so if he likes your skating you should be pretty happy. I’m stoked to be a part of his legacy as well—but that motherfucker is still crazy. We were on a Zero trip the other day in Atlanta. It was amazing. We woke up from camping at 7am, went and found a hotel, dropped our shit off and didn’t get back until 11am the following day. We stayed out all night skating and watched the sun come up. It was so fun because I hadn’t done that since I was a kid. We were doing crazy missions on that trip. He’s mellower for sure. That comes with age but he’s still got the Chief in him! Jamie is the best. It sucks that he had to sell a couple brands but at the same time now he can focus on Zero and his career again. He’s not as bad as all the rumors. I love that guy. He’s fucking great.
We were talking about job security the other day. You said something that I thought was interesting. It was about how you’re not worried about getting fired from a sponsor these days, you’re worried about the companies going out of business. Over the years you’ve seen core companies with enough money to pay riders good salaries and take rad trips. Those days seem to be coming to an end. Why do you think that is?
Fuck, I don’t know, man. You can’t just blame it on these corporate companies that are coming into skating. That’s an easy answer for a complex problem. It’s not just that. You can’t just blame shit on the corpo brands. They’ve been good and will always be good with or without skating. Kids are going to wear that shit no matter what. Even if Nike and adidas weren’t in skating, kids would wear those shoes no matter what. I think some of it has to do with the way retail is changing. Everyone buys shit online now and that’s killing the shops. Lets just blame it on the economy. The economy is shit right now. I don’t know why they keep saying it’s better. I hope to God all our little core shops can figure out a way to stay above water. It sucks because it affects all of us. There are a lot of heavy hitters that don’t have shoe sponsors or even board sponsors right now. It’s heavy to see the change.
The economy may be shit but Windsor’s
fakie backside nosegrind
is pure gold.
Photo: BROOK
So you are the first black man on Zero! How’s that grab ya?!
It’s sick, man! I love it. I’ve loved Zero since I started skating. It’s so sick to be a part of the Zero legacy now. Me growing up seeing all these gnarly fools coming out of the Zero videos and now I get to be a part of that? It’s amazing, man. It’s a staple in skating, especially being black. There’s never been no niggas on Zero! I’m breaking ground! Just stoked to be a part of something so big.
Do you think skateboarding has an unofficial affirmative-action policy? Like, you’ve got to have a black dude on the team to make it complete. You’ve said shit like that to me before in a joking way but do you think there is some truth to it?
I don’t know. It’d be fucking amazing, though! Thank God for that affirmative action! Every team needs to make sure they have one ethnic dude. It’s funny because you know how Zero has the classic American flag logo and they have the Mexican flag logo? Now they are going to have to figure out the black Zero logo! Gonna have to figure it out so they can catch some black man sales! It’s gonna be so sick to see niggas buying Zero boards.
You are sitting on four minutes of really good footy from what I hear. Are you done stacking clips for this part or have you been putting off your after blacks?
I have until November 21st. The Zero
No Cash Value
comes out and it’ll be me, Burman, Brockman and a team section with everyone else. Should be pretty good. I have about a month and a week to put the final touches on it. Go kill thyself until the deadline!
Is this your run at SOTY?!
No, no—well, shit, maybe if you guys wanna give it to me I’ll take it! Ha! Paul Hart just came out with the gnarliest part. So many people are so damn good. I can’t wait to see everyone’s parts that are about to drop. It’s going to be heavy!
Zero’s legacy includes some heavy rail chomping. Windsor secures its future with a Chief-approved
50-50
in LA.
Photo: BROACH

---

So you’re from Irvine, which is known as being one of the safest cities in California.
Well, I was born in Moreno Valley.
It’s a little rougher out there, right?
Yeah. Riverside. We were there ‘til, like, sixth grade and my brother got beat up by two black kids ‘cause he was accused of calling them the N-word. That bad word. But I don’t think my brother even knew what that word meant at that time. I think those fools just roughed him up for whatever reason. My dad went down to the school. He was, like, “Fuck this.” So we packed up and moved to Irvine.
So that was sixth grade?
Sixth grade. And from then I think I stayed there ‘til sophomore year then started going to the one-day-a-week school for the kids who just suck at school. American Gothic.
Backside 180 nose grind on the goddamned front porch. Photo: BURNETT
Like bad kids? Just you and the pregnant girls?
Pretty much. Mixed with a couple of those and just the kids who sucked at everything. That shit was seriously hard to finish. It’s, like, one day a week and you get these big-ass packets and it’s so hard to buckle down and actually do that shit. But I definitely did it all. And when I graduated there was just a little fuckin’ teacher back there and she rang a little bell, like, “Yep, you’re done. That’s it.” I was, like, “That’s it? You just ring a little fuckin’ cowbell?” Alright. Goodbye forever.
So at age 14 you started doing that?
Yeah.
And was that because of skating or just because you were blowing it at school?
Both, pretty much. Once you start getting into skating and traveling and trying to do contests and shit like that you kind of lose interest in everything else. In the skate world, everyone else who’s involved is a pile of shit so you just start heading that way too. But I graduated. My mom, she’s a teacher so she was beyond stoked. I guess I can say I pulled that off for her.
So you are a home owner in Oceanside now?
As a matter of fact, yeah.
What’s this place all about? What’s your house like?
It used to be crazier when I first moved in. But last night Richie Belton goddamn Hellrose’d the place and broke everything! But it’s been mellower around here, especially in the last year. The neighbors were pretty sick of what was happening. I spent the first year making my garage into a music facility and tried to soundproof it so when we got back from the bar we could jam all night but that mentality didn’t end up lasting too long.
Was it impossible to soundproof music of that caliber?
I did my best to try to soundproof it but, yeah, in the middle of the night without the cars going by you can obviously hear the bass. Richie Belton bass solo, that’s all the neighbors ever hear!
So you have a front house and a back house. Front house is for the grownups?
I guess. I can fuckin’ cut it off whenever I want. And then the back house is constantly going.
Rocking through a 5-0 kinker, smooth as a Belton bass solo. Photo: HAMMEKE
Are the people in the back house paying rent?
Yeah, but you know how that goes. It’s like you let it slide one month and then it just moves on to fucking whatever. Everyone has somewhat paid their dues, paid me back, whatever.
Have there been any cautionary tales with roommates? Was there anybody that pushed the limits of your generosity?
Yeah, I don’t even want to name names because I fuckin’ back ‘em all. I back them all too much. But so far everyone’s pretty much been on it. There’s a couple people who owe me a couple G’s but whatever.
Isn’t there some weird hole, like, up in the attic that you can sleep in?
Yeah, we have an attic above the jam room. Carpet room. Fuckin’ Joose lives up there. Wakes up, fuckin’ rubs it on the carpet wall, does whatever he does.
Who’s back there?
This kid Joose.
Nice.
He’s been floating around since he was, like, 14. But he’s an insane drummer.
Do you remember a distinct day when the Shep Dawgs finally got brave enough to show up? ‘Cause they’re a little younger, right?
Yeah, there was an insane chapter when Rowan and Bob and all of those fools finally made it over here. Yeah, they stayed over for, like, a week.
They’d found heaven!
They got a tattoo machine and just turned this place into a fuckin’ straight-up barnyard. It was so gnarly. Fools were pissing the couch every fuckin’ night. Then finally by the end of the week I was talking so much shit on it that I pissed my bed for the first time. I was burning them all week, just, “These little kids pissing all over my shit!” Then I go back on the last night, passed the fuck out and pissed the bed. Could have gotten hit by a car and wouldn’t have felt it.
Do you feel any sort of parental feelings over these kids?
Yeah, I think maybe by default. When you do have to crack the whip, I fuckin’ hate being in that position but you kind of have to when you’re running the spot. Usually when I’m other places it feels good to just be, like, “Fuck you. Fuck this motherfucker!” But when it’s where you sleep you’re, like, “Alright you fucking little punks. Get the fuck out of here.”
What about the local watering hole? There’s some really upscale bars around here, right? Isn’t there a place called Larry’s or something?
Top shelf, strictly. I swear right when we first moved into this house we were going down there so much. It was definitely firing for a good six months. There’s live music. It smells like feet. It’s pretty sick.
O-Side’s kind of known for being the last gnarly town in San Diego. Have you encountered any crime or street justice?
That’s definitely happened. So this was probably two years ago. This place isn’t that big. When there’s 30 people here that’s a zoo. That’s a circus. So whatever, fools are wilding out in the front and the back and the cops show up because fools are jamming and I’m talking to the cops and it’s whatever, probably the 17th time they’ve been here to write me a little certificate saying we’re being loud. So they’re, like, “Where do you think you’re at? Do you think you’re in the middle of the desert, man? Like, park it, shut up, turn off the music!” Meanwhile while they’re scolding me I hear a fight break out literally ten feet away behind the gate. The cops are talking to me, like, “Do you even have this shit handled? What the fuck’s going on back there?” And I’m kind of holding them off, like, “Hey, you’re not allowed back here. I’ll handle this. I’ll keep it down, whatever, just let us go.” There’s a full fight happening. I could hear it, they could hear it, it’s like the worst luck possible. Yeah, so I come back in and I rip these two fools apart, kick one of them out, the other one is chilling and then I turned the music off somewhat so the cops won’t show up for the rest of the night. Next morning me Bob, Ryan, Peanut, we’re all in my room. It’s pretty small and we’re watching skate videos. I hear someone walk in the door and we see this dude Fat Carlos, fuckin’ O-Side legend, whatever, he’s been around for eons and he’s with his homie Dozer. So Fat Carlos and Dozer cruise in and we’re, like, “Yeah, fuck yeah. What’s good?” And they just walk straight into my house, into my room unannounced then we realized what happened—the dude my friend Peanut got in a fight with was Fat Carlos’ little brother. And without even saying words Peanut just gets up, like, “Oh no,” and just gets the hammer to the nose and kicked on the ground a couple times then they kind of just said later and walked away like nothing happened. Just business. Yeah, and I kind of just sat there and I’m pretty embarrassed. But then again what the fuck are you gonna do? Two semi trucks walk into your house, like, you can’t get in the way of that shit.
Switch kickflip into a natty Euro. SD week daze. Photo: RHOADES
Frontier justice. The frontier of O-Side.
It was pretty sick realizing how it is around here. Peanut ended up apologizing, shook his hand and then they got drunk together.
So you recently took 100 days off of drinking alcohol. How was it?
The first couple months were kind of craze but when I can just shut everything off, since I’ve got my own zone, it was fuckin’ mellow. It was whatever. Even before I did it I thought it was gonna be way gnarlier than it was. But kind of keeping it mellow telling my friends, like, “Yo, don’t fucking party in the back for however long.” I didn’t give a time period but I just cut fools off, like, “Nah, you gotta take this shit somewhere else.” It’s whatever.
And that was to get ready to really concentrate on this Emerica video?
Yeah, well I think the hardest part about not boozing was just doing music stuff. You actually kind of care and you’re not taking risks. You can hear everything way more clear and it’s really fucking harsh to tell you the truth.
So it was harder to play music not drinking than to skate giant handrails not drinking?
Yeah, definitely. But then again, even on trips when you are drinking you show up at a spot, like a big rail or something, and you’re already so fired up that you’re kind of fearless. It’s like you can get away with it. But I think I was getting away with it more when I was a little younger. I’d go on these long music trips and then come back and go on a real skate trip and just end up in the hospital. It was, like, “Alright, dude. You make your own bed, you fucking sleep in it.” Obviously it’s not gonna work out every fucking time. It’s not gonna be you’re miraculously rolling away, somehow making tricks all hammered. It doesn’t last for that long. You gotta pull the trigger at some point and just, I don’t know, quit it all. It was good to know that I can do it. I can cut this shit off whenever. I don’t think it’s a problem like that. I don’t know what it was like with all the older bosses like Reynolds and all those dudes. I think it was a totally different circumstance for me.
Kicky front board an oversized rail in wildly undersized shoes. The ingrown toenails are off the Richter. Photo: BURNETT
Speaking of the hospital, most recently you ripped a metal light off of a ledge with your body?
Yes. That was like the second day. That was my first trip after the Vol. 4 trip, which was like three weeks long. This was probably three months ago. Yeah, I broke three ribs and one of the ribs hit my lung, put a little hole in it. So this was in Boston and the first hospital I went to they’re, like, “Yeah, we’ve got to get you the fuck out of here.” So they put me in an ambulance and sent me to a bigger hospital and they told me I couldn’t fly for, like, ten days. I stayed in there for two nights and, yeah, my chick came and picked me up and from there and I stayed in Philly for a week. I literally thought that I was gonna be done filming for the video. I was, like, “Alright, well, that’s that. I’m so rocked right now and bones take so fucking long to heal and you can’t do anything. You’ve just got to sit and try to take a piss without it hurting or laugh without it hurting. I was trying to look up ways—how the fuck can I make bones heal faster? And the first thing it said was no tobacco so I stopped smoking spliffs, no booze, obviously, tried to eat good and it worked somehow and the last month I was able to skate. I muscled out the hardest tricks for my part clear minded. Felt pretty good.
Nice. You had a string of misfortune in the last few years right?
Yeah, my accident history is embarrassing compared to most skaters. Not to sound arrogant or anything, but I don’t think a lot of these motherfuckers have been through half the shit that I’ve been through with ankles and ribs and just stupid shit that probably could have been avoided if I was being smart about it.
What are the big ones?
Um, the ribs. The ankles have been so repetitive. Your feet just slip off and it happens like that. It puts you a whole month out and the more you do it the easier your foot kind of rolls.
Speaking of your feet, are you still shoving your size 13s into size 11 shoes?
They’re definitely 11s. The ingrown toenails are off the fuckin’ Richter!
And it’s just because you can’t stand looking down at those fucking surfboards?
Yeah, and I know they don’t roll over as much in a smaller shoe.
So for this video how many times have you been to the hospital?
Probably, like, five times. For the ankles, the thumb, broke the fuck out of my thumb, the ribs, the arm.
The lung. How do you hurt a lung skateboarding?
Exactly. But coming out of it I feel fucking fine. I feel like I’m good to go. I feel like I could go jump down O-Side hubba if I wanted to.
In the pines, front nose. Photo: RHOADES
And you just got your last trick for Made 2. How’s it feel?
It feels fucking insane to be done. Like everything, going and fucking partying with the boys.
So that’s the end of your sobriety?
Yeah, for now. Towards the end of these videos when I’m going out to try to get these tricks I feel bad for the people who are involved in it with me. Because it’s not easy whatsoever for me to pull this shit. There’s certain points where fools can just pull the trigger. I feel like it used to be like that for me. But now it’s like I’m a fucking mental case. I’m sure everyone’s got their own shit, like, all these fucking older dudes I know that put the same fucking pressure on themselves. Everyone goes through it. Everyone has their battles, but it’s to the point where I don’t even want homies to cruise because I feel like I don’t want fools to see how fucking in my head I am and how gnarly it is. But in the end, when you can fucking pull though, it’s like the best high you can fucking possibly have.
So how do you finally get over the hump to land a wild trick like the one on the cover?
I think what happens, I have to get to the point where I’m so mad that I’m not doing it. Like, so mad that I wish instead of having to do the trick I could get hit by a fucking truck so I could just stop. Like, “Someone drive their car in here and hit me with it!” If it’s to that point then I’m just blind and then I blink and I’m rolling away. I don’t even realize that I did it. It’s just, like, “Oh, I did it. I can’t believe that just fucking worked out.” It’s like at that point I just want to get in a fight and get stomped on and get beat the fuck up rather than not land the trick. Or in order for me to do it, like, someone come up and punch me straight in the fuckin’ jaw so I can feel some pain or just eat shit already or something. It’s fucking weird, man; it’s crazy. It’s different every fuckin’ time I step on a skateboard. But I’m completely addicted to it.
Have you ever taken a drug that made you feel like you saw hell?
Yeah. I definitely went to the DMT, dude.
So DMT, that’s the drug that makes you feel like you’re being born and you see God and stuff?
Yeah, you see God and Satan and you have to conquer that and then once you do you realize nothing in life matters and you’re fearless. I feel like those dudes, you don’t have to drop names, they’ll smoke that stuff and then they’ll go skate the Mega Ramp. They’ll go defy the laws of physics literally and pull off miracles.
What made you want to do that? Like, “It’s a Tuesday. I wish I could see God and Satan?”
When I did do it I had a cast on my foot. It was my third ankle surgery. My foot was going out of place when I’d kickflip. It was terrible. This was the last surgery I had on it and I didn’t know if I’d ever be able to skate again or skate normal and I didn’t want to tell anyone that. I didn’t want to tell my sponsors that because, whatever, I’ve devoted everything to this. Look at me, with all of these shit tattoos! I don’t know what else I’m gonna do in life! So I was kinda freaking out and my friend BB had been wanting to do it too. I hobbled in on crutches with BB and you gotta sign a waiver. It’s fuckin’ intense. You have to sign yourself up just in case anything happens. So the doctor guy puts on this weird music with some weird Zen-type meditation feel going on before you do it. Then the guy—he’s legally allowed to have it and he puts it in this little generator thing and it blows the smoke out into a bag. It sounds fucking insane, I know, but it all happened and it was all real as shit. So then you suck on this bag. You suck all of the air out of this bag and within seconds you get to watch yourself leave your body and it seems so fucking real. It’s, like, I think it’s more intense than acid or mushrooms or any of that.
The tré flip tailgrab gets a rebirth. Is that you, God? Sequence: RHINO
So you left your body and then what happened?
I feel insane even talking about it, dude. Sorry, Mom. But I literally left the room, like, I’m leaving and I could watch the house that I’m floating up from into the sky. I go past the clouds and I literally see what I think is God. Literally, like, the figure that you would see in the Bible, like, that dude with the long hair. I don’t know if that’s what we’ve been taught what God looks like. Maybe that’s why it looked like that, then Satan was this red dude with no hair.
When you saw God did it feel good?
Not really. It was kind of like looking at both of them just like—
Were they hanging out together?
Somewhat. They were kicking it. They were just next to each other and I pretty much had to accept what was happening and realize that I wasn’t scared of both these motherfuckers, like, “You guys don’t phase me whatsoever!” And then after that point I felt like I’m not scared of these fools like I can go on the rest of my life being fearless of everything.
What did Satan look like?
I don’t know, maybe fuckin’ Lee Dupont. But red. I saw hell too.
What? Wow! Was there a feeling of horror when you saw hell?
Yeah. I mean looking at these two, you’re terrified. I was terrified at first and then I literally said, “Accept what’s happening and just power through it—just muscle it and you’re good.” This sounds fucking insane. You’ll never even know unless you go sign the waiver and go fucking drop in.
How did it end? Did it have any long-lasting effects on your outlook of the world?
Yeah, I think if everybody did that, the planet would be a whole better place. It makes you feel like nothing matters and the fact that you get to wake up and cruise around is the sickest thing. Be grateful for that and just be stoked. When shit gets intense in life I think if people just go do that and it just grounds you. And how much pain I had about my ankles and skating and shit, it just brought me back to life, like, “Dude, you’re gonna be fuckin’ chilling whether you’re skating or not. You’ll be fine, you’ll figure it out.” I feel like it sounds childish. It definitely kind of changes the way that you look at shit.
So yeah, you’ve got a house, you’ve got some dogs, a girlfriend, you got a hit video coming out. How’s things looking for you?
I want to keep it going. After Stay Gold my back hurt so bad that I didn’t skate for, like, three months. Bake and Destroy, that’s when the ankles started. Couldn’t skate for pretty much a year after that. I’m actually leaving this video part feeling healthier than I’ve ever felt, which is still blowing my mind. It’s insane. But I don’t know. I want to hit the road with the homies whether it’s for skating or music.
I know there was a time when there was a lot of rockers in skateboarding but now it seems like it’s just you guys in O-Side. You don’t see as many long hairs these days. Do you worry that the rock ‘n’ roll revolution has become more of an acquired taste?
I hope more people get turned off by it. It just makes our shit that much more personal, like, “Yeah, that’s our fuckin shit! Hate it!”
What do you love most in life?
There’s a lot to be grateful for. The fucking sand that’s a block away from my house. O-Side, the Rhoades family, Lito, the Boulevard. My goddamn parents. Mom and Dad, sorry for the hell I’ve put you through. Love y’all. Jon Miner, everyone at Emerica. Gibby my dog. I don’t have much to complain about. Everything in my life I’m pretty fuckin’ stoked on. Collin fuckin’ Provost ‘til the end of time. Jake Phelps, I’ve got your back, dude. I’ll kill for you. Burndog, Jesus Christ, you’ve put up with my bullshit for awhile.
Biggie front board fakie. Figgy lives to see another day… again. Sequence: RHODES

---

Jamie Thomas has defined himself by struggle.
When everyone was fresh, he was hesh… and dirty… and lived in his car. Be it the cool clique at Embarcadero, the fickle skateboard industry, the tenets of acceptable maneuvers or three King of the Road trips, Jamie has put a shoulder into it, charged forth teeth gnashed and ultimately conquered. Even when he was at the top of the mountain, lording over a building longer than a city block, when asked how he was doing he’d always say, “Oh, man. It’s tough. It’s really tough.” Which is just how Jamie Thomas likes it. In fact, let him get
one more try
at that gigantic 5-0. It’s easy to forget that skulls, acid drops and balls-to-the-wall shredditude were on the wane before Jamie’s Zero army. It’s hard to imagine that Chris Cole was stuck with the goof troop before the Chief gave him a shot. There’s so much of modern skateboarding that we take for granted that is either wholly or partially thanks to Jamie Thomas’s struggle; his vision of what makes skateboarding awesome. So when we hear rumors that Zero is downsizing or that Jamie is having knee problems we aren’t one bit concerned. In fact, we know that it’s probably just how he’d prefer things. The struggle is real, and Jamie Thomas fucking lives for it.
He ollied the Gonz gap at Embarcadero every day for weeks. And when the Thrasher photographer showed up, he did it without shoes: Kanights
What did you think moving to SF to skate was going to be like before you
got there?
I moved to San Francisco in 1992 and was there for almost two years. I grew up in Alabama and before moving to California,
I had only traveled around the South where skateboarders are an extreme minority, so just being a skateboarder was enough to be accepted by other skaters. So, I guess it’s safe to say that I expected to be accepted.
What was it really like?
It was the exact opposite of what I expected. We felt like outcasts. We got along with other out-of-towners, but it was pretty harsh trying to integrate into the scene.
What was your lowest point in
San Francisco?
When we moved out there, we planned on camping out at Embarcadero until we figured something out, but we didn’t really think that through. Sean Young and I skated everyday and weren’t showering very often and eventually we got staph infection, then I got strep throat on top of that. I remember sleeping in my car and just shivering for days. Eventually, we went to the free clinic. We got a penicillin shot and the doctor told me the only way I was gonna get off the street was male prostitution. Meanwhile, we felt hated by the locals and I remember asking myself, “What the hell am I doing here?”
Hensley haircut, 180 nosegrind when there was still marble to skate in SF: Kanights
What did skateboarding feel like at
that time?
I couldn’t understand how something that I loved so much could feel so lame. I wanted more than anything to belong to the skate community and the harder I tried, the worse it was, so I just stopped trying and stopped caring what people thought of me. It was hard accepting the fact that I was a kook or that everyone thought so. Whenever I would get really discouraged I would play the tape through and think about what would it be like if I went back to Alabama. I knew there was nothing for me there, so that wasn’t really an option. So it would get me fired up to make the most of every opportunity.
How did your time in SF affect your motivation and determination?
I think the struggle during that time helped mold and define me. I left Alabama with blind confidence and the drive to make something of myself, but after we got off the streets I started to focus on what I had to offer skateboarding and started to push myself. Once I started to get some coverage in the mags, that fueled the fire and motivated me. More than anything I was determined not to go home.
What were the biggest lessons your learned at that time in your life?
I learned that respect is earned not given and often times it might not be on your schedule. I also learned how important it is to be able to overcome adversity.
Satva on fish, pushing the limits of rail riding at the Moscone Center while filming for Welcome to Hell: Mcgrath
How did you meet Ed Templeton?
That’s a good question. I don’t remember actually meeting Ed. Maybe it was at the Back to The City contest in ‘94? I rode for Invisible at the time.
How did riding for Toy Machine differ from your past sponsorship experiences?
The brands I’d ridden for in the past were pretty small and low budget, so I was just barely getting by. Even though Toy only had a few team riders when I got on, Tum Yeto was solid and I was able to support myself. I was also able to jump in and help with a few different roles.
What extra shit did you want to do with Toy that you hadn’t done before?
I wanted to do whatever needed to be done to make the brand rad. Even though Ed wanted stuff to happen, he often took a hands-off approach and waited for someone else to do it, so I stepped in and started doing shit: building a team, making videos, sending out packages, planning
trips, whatever.
Raw jocks—Ed, Muska, Jamie and Satva: Mcgrath
When did you realize you had a knack for the handrails and drops?
When I was really young I used to jump out of trees and off the house. I would literally do it for hours. Seems crazy now that I think back, but for some reason I loved it, so I learned how to fall. When I started skating I skated jump ramps and acid dropped off high stuff and eventually started skating rails. I realized that I had the ability to overcome fear and try stuff that others wouldn’t. I liked the feeling and I think I liked that it was my thing, so I just started ollieing every gap I could find.
What was filming for
Welcome to
Hell
like?
I felt like I was getting my groove and tapping into my potential as a skateboarder. I had a vision for the part and I had something to work towards. During that time I developed or honed my process for progression and learned how to film a part start to finish. It all started with finding the right song.
Was the competition between you and The Muska what eventually tore the
Welcome To Hell
Toy lineup apart?
I wasn’t really tripping on competing with Chad, but he was the rising star and his persona was larger than life, so when he got hurt during the last six months of filming he was really frustrated and the tension started to build. I wasn’t gunning for his spot because we were so different, but we were the same stance and had a knack for similar tricks, so if I learned or filmed a trick that he was good at or that he didn’t have for his part, he would get pissed. I understand why he was frustrated. It was his time and the stage was set for him to have last part, but due to things out of his control he had to sit on the sidelines.
Did you feel like you were starting to be where you wanted to be as a pro skater after
Welcome To Hell
, as far as respect from your peers, admiration from fans, satisfaction with your skills, etc?
I didn’t really think about it that much, I was so focused on what’s next. I do remember thinking every once in a while, “How did I get here? A few years ago I was on the streets and felt banished,” but I didn’t dwell on it because I think I knew that I still had a lot of work to do.
What was the ethos of Zero skateboards? What did you want it to represent?
I started Zero in 1996 and at the time the graphics and gear that everyone was wearing felt bland. I remember feeling desperate for something that was against the grain. I wanted to go back to the ‘80s when I discovered rock ’n’ roll and punk rock, so that was the vibe. I also only wanted to sponsor underdogs; dudes that were hungry and wanted a chance. Maybe it was a way to help people that were in a similar situation to me when I got
to California.
What was your strategy or vibe as far as building a team? What were some of your earlier successes as far as
team building?
Well, I helped Ed build the Toy Machine team, so that was my first experience. But when we started Zero I wanted it to be a bit grittier and rough around the edges. We always used a team vote and whoever we were considering had to be able to travel with the team and get along with everyone and also contribute something. At the time we were building Zero, it was just kinda happening naturally. I didn’t really have a formula worked out. As time went on and I got more experience, I started looking for certain qualities from the first conversation or interaction.
How was it being the boss? Was it all you imagined?
Being the boss has its ups and downs. I think I work best when it’s on a small scale, like ten-15 people. I think I’ve always been a natural leader, so I never really strived to be the boss, it just kinda happened. When things are good, it’s rad. When things are bad, it’s on you to make it rad.
What were the highs and lows of working with Jim Greco?
Jim was rad. He was always fun and so damn passionate. We never really had any lows ‘til the end. He quit for Baker by telling me he was gonna film a full part for Baker even though we were starting to film for the next video after
Misled Youth
. At the time, Baker was just a crew, but it was obvious to me it was going to be a board brand and I was, like, “You can’t film for another video over ours and still ride for Zero.” So he got drunk and quit in a shitty way. He later apologized, though, and we made good. I like Jim.
What
Misled Youth
tricks are you most proud of?
I try not to be proud, but I’m thankful for that part and times we had making that video. My favorite stuff in my part is probably the end section. I like the feel of the song with the tricks and it’s slow, so the nostalgia really has time to sink in.
Looking back, was this your greatest era as a pro skater or were you just getting started?
It’s hard to say. But, yeah, probably from 1996-2001 was when I was at my best. Ha! Hard to believe that I’m 14 years past my prime, but I guess that’s reality.
What defined you personally in this era?
Video parts defined me, straight up. Everything in my mind evolved around video parts.
After black hammers. Iconography. Back lip Hollywood 16: Sturt
Is this when you found Jesus?
Yeah, but I wasn’t looking for Jesus. I was fine with everything being about me. But yeah, I went to Tim Brauch’s funeral and had a heavy realization that I was extremely selfish and I asked the Lord for forgiveness.
Why did you want to put Christian symbols on skateboards and grip tape? Did you ever catch heat? Why did
you stop?
When I first accepted the Lord, I felt like it was my responsibility to share my faith. I was also so hyped on the Lord that I felt it was what best represented me. I felt like everything else was cheap or blasphemous, but yeah I got a lot of heat because people said I was trying to cash in on God. Ironically, before I released the graphics everyone told me not to do it because they wouldn’t sell and I felt so strongly about it that I did it anyways. When it comes to sharing your faith, you’re going to get hate because spirituality is so personal. No one wants their spiritual space invaded. Over time, I realized that everything I did didn’t have to advertise my faith or spirituality, so I started doing it more subtly.
Are you still a Christian? How does this manifest itself in your daily life? Do you ever make business decisions based on Christian beliefs at the expense of what will make you the most money?
Yes, I’m still a Christian. I go to church with my family whenever possible. That time helps keep me grounded and helps me acknowledge that my spiritual health is important. Yeah, I think that your spiritual health and upbringing is what defines your moral compass which gives you the ability to make ethical decisions. I’ve never made decisions solely based on what will make the most money. It’s funny because I’ve been accused of the opposite, but usually the person that has the most to gain from any decision is accused of being taking advantage of by the other person. No one usually asks my side of the story.
What does it feel like to have a teammate leave? Who was
the hardest?
I guess when the feeling is mutual it feels natural. But like anything in life, it’s always harsh to be blindsided. I’ve been doing this for a long time, so I know the patterns that lead up to a rider leaving and generally there are warning signs. If you catch it early on, there’s a chance you can work through it, but more often than not the rider eventually leaves anyway. Ellington was only hard because I felt we worked really well together, but he’s really sharp and he was destined for more. Generally, the more you go out on a limb for a rider and try to do everything you can to help them on their path, the more it hurts. So, you can either give only what you’re comfortable with or do everything you can regardless of the pain you’ll feel if it doesn’t work out. I must be a glutton for punishment, ‘cause I usually pick the latter.
Are you afraid of the dark? Nosegrind in the era of the night mission: Blabac
A lot of people have tried to mess with you over the years. Do you love the haters, like DGK? How do you deal
with criticism?
I learned early on that you have to find motivation from those that try to bring you down. “Those that can’t break you, somehow help make you.” Didn’t Morrisey say that? I think criticism is important for growth, usually the more painful the more you have to learn and possibly grow from.
Why do you engage with the Slap message-board weirdos?
Because it’s a community of skate nerds that I can identify with. Once you understand the message board culture and the creed, then you’re able to find the good in it. I realize it’s not for everyone, though.
After skating so much giant terrain, where did you want your skating to go?
I didn’t really think about it. I just wanted to go as far as I could with every trick I learned.
Did you “Duffy” yourself—i.e. come out so strong that it was hard to outdo yourself later?
Nah, it’s hard to maintain that level of focus or physical ability, though, ‘cause of the injuries that come with it and because life’s responsibilities continue to increase.
What went wrong on the Leap
of Faith?
I didn’t go fast enough for the height of the drop. It was hard to imagine going faster, though. I felt like the most important thing was to make sure I landed on the board. I always wanted to go back, but it never happened.
Jamie and Joanne, 4 ever: Brook
Did you actively try to market this event or was this something created solely by the media?
We just made an ad for it and put it in the video, but I had no idea the way people would respond to it. And to be honest,
I think it gained notoriety when the dude broke his legs trying it. I didn’t see
that coming.
What were the most important things that happened in your life in
these years?
I think up to this point, moving to SF, riding for Toy Machine, starting Zero, getting married, and giving my life to the Lord were the most important things that happened. Everything else was a byproduct of those decisions.
Heart of glass wallride from his 10 Years of Thomas cover: Shigeo
What made you want Chris Cole
for Zero?
I felt he had more potential than anyone I’d ever seen and he was so passionate about skating. I knew he had a different style to the brand, but I thought that he was rad and he seemed to be growing into his own.
How would you describe him
before Zero?
He was a super talented skate nerd from the East Coast who was a product of
his environment.
Did you really give him a cool makeover, as cynics suggest?
Nah, we went on Circa trips and when he was wearing bright yellow and red shirts the thought of him riding for Zero never crossed my mind. But as he started to outgrow his bright phase and started gravitating toward the Circa stuff I was designing, it started to not seem like such a far-fetched idea.
I roomed with him quite a bit ‘cause we had a lot in common. We liked a lot of the same music and we were the sober skate nerds.
You also helped groom Jon Allie and Tommy Sandoval for the big leagues. What’s your approach? How do you spot raw talent?
I look for the dudes out there filming video parts with their homies and putting everything on the line like they’ve got nothing to lose. If they can do that on their own, they’ll progress that much more with help and support.
What were the challenges and victories in working with Cole, Allie
and Tommy?
I think the challenges were different for each dude: Cole’s challenge was acceptance from the team and his peers because of his radical transformation. Allie’s was his crass introverted personality and Tommy’s was that he’s so raw and ghetto. All of those challenges worked to their advantage, though, and became what people loved about them. The victories came from watching the impact they had on skateboarding and the good times we had.
When has Zero felt most like a team?
In the beginning. When things are small is when I’ve found every brand feels most like a team, but videos really bring the team together. But after videos are over you’re often left with an emptiness and an almost depressing feeling.
Who is your closest friend from Zero?
I talk the most often to Ellington and Lopez, so probably one of those two.
KOTR champs, undefeated: Shigeo
What allowed Zero to win KOTR an unprecedented three times?
It seems like we had a formula worked out. Everyone knew their role and we gave everything 110 percent. Even though we often hated it, we had a team of scrappy underdogs that seem to thrive on being put in those situations.
What do you love and hate
about KOTR?
The anxiety of feeling like there’s more you could be doing and that you can’t relax. There’s also a stress level of knowing that no matter what you do you can’t beat the book. Every year we tried so hard to beat the book, but damn if it wasn’t impossible.
Under what conditions would you ever go again?
I don’t know. I think that time has passed. I’m not sure I have that level of fight left in me. I don’t feel like there’s anything left to prove or gain.
In this period you had enormous success with Zero, Mystery and Fallen. Was there a moment when you realized, “Holy shit! I’m rich!”
Ha! By the time I realized that may be the case, things started getting tough with the economy and the thought was gone.
180 nosegrind, third times a charm: Shigeo
You were once named entrepreneur of the year and were rumored to have been offered many millions of dollars for Black Box. Why didn’t you sell?
I never got in this to get rich and all of the people that were offering to buy the brands were investment bankers. I just couldn’t imagine something that we cared about so much about being owned by someone who cared so little.
Do you ever regret not selling?
Not for my benefit. I think the tough times I’ve had have taught me a ton about humility and what’s really important in life. If I would’ve sold when we were on top, I’m afraid I’d forever be the worst version of myself. I do wish that the employees and team riders could’ve benefitted from a payday, though.
In your imagination, what do you spend your 50-million dollars on?
I would want to give a big chunk of it to all of the people that helped make it successful. I would give some to my family and to charities and invest the rest. I might be tempted to buy a shack in the South somewhere.
Cold War found Jamie back at Rincon for one more rodeo. Blunt slide: Perkins
How hard was it to part ways with Cole?  What do you think about the direction his post-Zero career
has taken?
To be honest, I think the timing was right. His career was headed in a different direction than where Zero is headed. We weren’t really talking that often or spending time together any more, so it made sense. I’m hyped for him. His commercial success is huge and I don’t feel any weirdness besides when kids get all upset about the fact that he’s not on Zero anymore and want to vent their frustration towards me.
What do you look for in a friend, business partner and team rider? Can you reciprocate?
I look for someone that as a team you make each other better. Yeah, I think you should be there to back each other up.
How would you describe your intensity? Have you ever looked at yourself and said, “Man, I’m a maniac. I need to slow down…”
Maybe in my earlier years, but I’m not so intense these days. I’ve mellowed out; gotten softer.
Do you think you burn people out? Who can keep up with The Chief?
I think I have that potential. I have to remind myself that not everyone shares my desire for the end goal.
Have you ever been burnt out? How do you reinvigorate?
Yeah, I get burnt out almost everyday, but the next day I’m ready for more. I hang out with the family when I’m burnt out on work or skating. I think I’ll continue to mellow out as I get older, ‘til I’m in a rocking chair whittling sticks.
Old dog, old trick, gnarly terrain—impossible 50-50 at Clipper: Zaslavsky
What have been the biggest physical challenges of your career? Are there any injuries we never even
heard about?
Nah, no secrets. My knee injuries have been the hardest to overcome, starting with my first ACL blowout in 1999.
How does your family fit in with your very active life? Do you want your sons to skate? Do you expect them to
be exceptional?
Travel is hard on any family, but I do my best to keep things balanced. I just have to try and stay organized. Nah, my kids are into organized sports ‘cause all of their friends are. It’d be rad if they were into it, but I don’t mind that they’re not. I just want them to be happy and to find something they love. I don’t expect them to be exceptional, but I expect them to make an effort to be their best.
Taking drops ‘til he drops. The sidewalk never ends for Jamie Thomas: Dominick
What was your motivation for starting more brands, Fallen, Mystery etc.? Describe what it was like to see your business shit the bed.
I think for better or worse, I’ve tried to make the most out of every opportunity. Unfortunately, though, it took me a long time to figure out that you don’t have to follow through with every “good idea” you have. The ability to stay focused and stay in your lane is something that I’ve had to learn. I guess I just had to learn my limits; I think that’s always been the case. Shutting Black Box down was tough; I had to say sorry to a lot of people. Fallen grew really fast and shrank at the same speed. When any brand has that type of trajectory, it’s hard to make it out alive. The hardest part is the toll it had on of all of my work relationships. It’s been like going through a divorce. I obviously wanted to keep Zero & Fallen going, so I had to try and find a home where they would be stable in hopes that they could start growing again. Dwindle has been exactly that. I miss the camaraderie with everyone at Black Box, but I don’t miss the responsibility that goes along with running a distribution.
What’s your role for Zero & Fallen now?
I’m the owner/creative director and we set up a little design studio in Encinitas and I work with three others on all of the creative and marketing aspects of the brands. Dwindle handles all of the sales, manufacturing, and distribution responsibilities. It’s a much healthier environment for me, personally.
Were you more interested in business or more interested in making cool stuff for you and your friends and fans and growing your Zero vision?
I never cared about business. It was just something you had to deal with in order to progress, and making cool stuff was the whole reason I was doing the brands. Ironically, though, the more the business progressed the less time I had to design stuff and work with the team.
Did you ever want to throw in the towel and become a motorcycle mechanic?
I thought about stuff like that, but I didn’t really see it as an option to give up. I wouldn’t be able to live with myself, knowing that I didn’t try everything.
Describe what it was like to pick up the pieces and rebuild.
The fallout, cleanup and effect it has had on personal relationships is the hardest part. I’m still working through it. Working on new products and staying on task has actually been fun. It feels how it did when we first started—no expectations but hoping for the best. I also get to work with the team a bit more and talk to shops more.
When were you happiest?
Things were pretty blissful before I started a distribution company. Just driving around with the team trying to film tricks for
Misled Youth
.
When were you most naive?
1992.
When were you skating your best?
1999.
What was your gnarliest rail? Highest drop? Best trick?
My gnarliest rail was probably the backside 50-50 down the 21-stair in
Welcome To Hell
or the frontside 50-50 the Earl Warren 20 in
Dying to Live
.  Biggest drop was definitely the Leap of Faith and my best trick was probably the impossible 50-50 down Clipper.
Who will always be the best?
John Cardiel, hands down.
When is skateboarding fun?
When you forget where you are and what you’re doing.
When is skateboarding miserable?
When you thought you wanted to try something and you have multiple filmers and a photographer waiting for you to try something gnarly and you’d rather be anywhere in the world but there.
What’s next? Why do you want to skate across Texas?
My sister and father have recently battled cancer and I want to do something that helps people like them, so I’m skating across the state of Texas to raise money and awareness for cancer.
Who gives you hope for the future?
My children.
Who on your team can always lift
your spirits?
Dane. Even when I’m pissed at him I love him.
Who on your team puts you in check?
Brass. That’s his role. He puts everyone in check.
What pro skater bowed out
most gracefully?
Heath, hands down.
How do you want it to end?
Does it have to end?
How do you want to be remembered?
As someone who dedicated their life to what they love.
Do you owe anyone an apology?
My wife.
In the end, what does it all
mean anyway?
It’s about the
Thrill Of It All
.
Next stop: the Rio Grande!: Cannon

---

Okay, I’m just gonna start with some protocol shit and then it will probably go left field down the line. State your full name and date of birth.
Christopher Randolf Gregson birthed December 22nd 1990 in Irvine, California, and currently residing in San Diego.
What’s your handle?
Sunshine, Big Bird, Tweest, Greggy. My Insta thing is @tweestopher.
You grew up skating in Irvine, right?
Yeah, Irvine sucks.
What’s the worst thing about growing up in Irvine?
That would just have to be the cops, for sure! It’s the only privately-owned police department in the entire United States.
Sounds like a private militia.
Irvine is actually a family and the town has only been around for about 30 years. They owned the best piece of land, you know, right in the heart of Orange County, all the orange groves and stuff. Once they decided to turn it into a city they made it so they still owned the land. Now all the businesses in Irvine have to pay a certain percentage to that family. It’s all owned by the Irvine family.
Nosepick
They could just close it down and build a wall around it, huh? Do your parents still live there?
Yeah, and my younger brother.
Do you tell ‘em it sucks?
Oh yeah. They know how I feel. At the same time, living in a spot that’s as boring as Irvine is what got me into finding skating. And then, like, I met a small group of people that skated. Everyone that skated in Irvine knew each other. I met Figgy at an after-school skate program in seventh grade and he pretty much became my best friend and we just skated all the time. I grew up with Collin Provost, too. We all just grew up skating, learning and feeding off each other. Without living in such a boring place like Irvine, who knows what else we could’ve gotten into. It sucks but at least we got out of there.
Most people never get out. You hit Washington Street pretty hard; I’m surprised there’s no WSVT photos in the mix here.
It’s just hard to think of stuff to do there after years of filming there. But I still try and skate there when I can but just trying to skate everything.
Stale over the ladder
What’s the most suffering you ever put in on a maneuver there?
I’d say most recently, a trick I shot with Rhino. I did a kickflip lipslide over the flat wall love seat. That took, like, three hours. As far as old stuff goes, I would say—I don’t know. Everything takes me a long time there.
It should.
Just ‘cause it’s the hardest park to skate and each time it’s different. You never know if the coping is going to grind or just stop or if you’re just gonna get pitched pumping the hump bump trying to get where you want to go.
What are some of your first memories of going there?
The first time I went to the bridge I was with this dude Steve who used to be the Birdhouse team manager and we were filming a line. It was so long ago. So this guy—I wish I could remember who it was—but someone came up and told Steve if he didn’t put the camera away he was going to grab it and throw it over the fence. Then I was scared to go there for years. Even when I moved to San Diego I didn’t go there for at least a year ‘cause I was so intimidated. Then a bunch of people were, like, “You need to go there and skate. It’s so fun!” And eventually that was the place that got me re-stoked on skating again.
You should’ve kicked whoever it was in the nuts, even if it was me. What do you think of the term ATV in skateboarding these days? To me, it’s getting pretty blurry when it comes to the youth, you know? The attitude is, like, why wouldn’t you attack a mound of concrete the same way you would a set of stairs? It’s the norm. Like how you, Willis Kimbel and this generation skates—it’s
fucking awesome.
I grew up skating the Vans skatepark at the Block, so when I started skating I didn’t even know the difference of, like, street skaters, vert skaters or pool skaters. I just skated the same park and just skated everything. So that’s just how it’s been my whole life. I feel like with Dreamland, Grindline and Team Pain building theses massive-type parks, people are getting stoked on tranny and being more well rounded, I guess. They’re definitely breeding grounds. You look at the people from Oregon and they grow up skating the biggest, best parks and they’re all just phenomenal skaters.
You guys are pretty stoney over there at Blood Wizard. I thought you were gonna hack up a lung last night when I talked to you. What’s your medicinal booze-to-
herb ratio?
I definitely smoke more twists, but when I’m skating I definitely want to be drinking more beers and having fun.
Boardslide
What tunes do you binge on when you twist em up? Besides Pentagram, though.
Early ‘70s heavy psych stuff. There’s a bunch of new bands coming up with that old-Sabbath-type sound. I’ve been super stoked on this band called Danava from Portland.
Yeah, Sabbath pretty much started it all. You ever hear a band called Hour of 13?
Fuck yeah, they’re the best. The song “Naked Star” and their last album,
333
, that’s so good.
Glad I didn’t have to say, “Check ‘em out.” So has Toad ever asked you to morph into the Blood Wizard himself?
It’s usually Jerry Gurney and Drew Dezort. It sucks to skate in. You’re dripping sweat the moment you put it on.
I figured Toad just cast a spell and, BLAM! You’re the Blood Wizard.
I should just say no. No one even knows who he is. He just comes and goes.
Hippie jump
If you had a spell to open a time portal, would you and your skateboard choose to go forward or backwards in time?
I would go back in time for sure and skate all the legendary stuff I grew up watching in old videos that I was never able to skate.
Like, how far back, though?
Maybe just go back to before skateboards were even invented.
There you go! Go back to the Medieval times with that skateboard and you would dominate worlds. Now that’s some wizard shit.You ever get down with some
Dungeons
&
Dragons
role playing?
No. Never.
No? I seen some Blood Wizard graphics with the D&D gamer’s dice on ‘em.
I was a little jealous. You should look into it. What’s your top-three all-time cult movies?
The ‘70s cartoon
Wizards
,
Heavy Metal
and the old cartoon version of
Lord of the Rings
. Those would be my top three.
Black Sabbath
, too. That’s a good one.
Check out
Inquisition
,
and if you ever come across a movie called
Vampire Sadism
, don’t watch it. Anyways, do you guys still roll in that monstrosity of a painted van?
Yes, my roommate Greg’s van. He actually has two of them. One’s an Econoline four-wheel-drive painted camo, and he’s got the EuroVan that has the pop-top stove and is painted camo, also.
Yeah, thats the one! All I know is that when I see that thing rolling up there’s like a dozen dudes about to pour outta that fucker.
Yeah, we’re partying in that thing all the way to the bridge!
Frontside blunt
Rhino told me you used to have a job filming for Flip. Must have been insane filming with Rowley.
So intense. I was 17 when they hired me and before that I never made a dollar filming in my life. Ewan picked up a film reel at Blitz, watched it one day and was stoked on it, I guess. Filming with all those dudes was so crazy. I was just a little kid. Half those dudes were in the
Tony Hawk Pro Skater
game that I grew up playing.
That’s a heavy gig. They never paid any attention to you skating?
Nah, I was there to film and that’s what they were paying me for. They were pretty strict about it. That’s what kinda dragged me away from skating ‘cause it was so serious. Filming with Geoff was intense. I would get texts from him, like, be there at this certain time—your job depends on it.
Didn’t you guys get arrested together?
Yeah, when he got the
Thrasher
cover—the impossible over the roof gap in La Habra. He’d gone there the night before and drilled plywood on the runway and landing. He didn’t even try to ollie it, just starts with the impossible. So me and Burnett are on the roof and this janitor comes out screaming at the top of his lungs while Geoff is jumping the gap. Eventually he broke his board. It was so hectic. He set up a new board and I swear it was first try. He went back on the roof and made it. Burnett and I were freaking out! We jumped off the roof and within 20 seconds of our feet hitting the ground we got tackled from behind. Both cameras went flying in the air and then straight to jail. They found all the plywood drilled on the roof, a drill covered in Flip stickers and Geoff was wearing a Flip shirt. There was no getting out of that at all.
You got the clip, though, right? The rest is history.
Yeah, Geoff had to pay two grand for each tape to get it out of evidence.
Well, enough of that. What are you conjuring up this summer?
I’m going to make the next Blood Wizard promo vid,
Masters of Wizardry
, that will feature me, Jerry Gurney, Jack Given and the rest of the team will have clips. We’ll be skating in Marseille, Prague and just hanging out with the bros, partying, smokin’ tweests.
Sounds about right. You got a pro board coming out?
I don’t know. That would be cool. It’s not up to me.
Frontside hurricane
Let your skating do the talking. Any last rites? You want to holler at your boys or sponsors and shit?
All hail the Wizard and everyone that’s helped me along the way: Mom and Dad, Active, OJ, Indy, Bronson bearings, Witchcraft hardware, Crap eyewear.
Wait, crap what? That’s for real?
Yeah! Truman and Blake ride for ‘em, too. Crap eyes!
Yes. Finally someone gets to the point.
And thanks to Rhino for making all this happen and to you for doing this interview.
No, man, you did all the work.
Kickflip lip

---

Click images to enlarge.
I heard you were a pretty wild kid. How would you describe the younger you?
I was reckless in my younger years. I was just in my own world.
What’s the worst situation you ever got yourself into?
The worst situations have always been when surrounded by a group of people not understanding me. English isn’t my forte right now—feeling lost is the worst.
Was there a moment when you realized, “I better get my shit together if I’m gonna make it in this skate game?”
Filming for
Gypsy Life
, possibly.
Bon Voyage
happened too quick. I shared a part in that. But when I was told I could have a full part in this new video, it clicked after seeing half my footage. I went hard for it in the last few months of 2014. I stopped filming for my part in early January. My ankle and wrist gave up. But yeah, being part of a real video with a full part was it for me.
Switch nosegrind.
Photo: Turakiewicz
Do you still have any bad habits or vices?
Of course. Lots. I always leave restaurants without paying—without realizing it.
How did you get on Cliché?
Lucas told Al and Jeremie to put me on in the summer of 2011. They did and I’m honored that Lucas made it happen. He’s real.
How would you describe the overall vibe of Cliché and the dudes on the team?
It’s just a bunch of good guys from around the world. Let’s keep it going.
Boardslide.
Photo: Zaslavsky
What is your impression of skating in the US? Is it different from how you and your friends approach skating?
When I first skated Philly back in 2006, skateboarding was 24 hours a day. People would go film any time of the day, get the lights out, it’s on over there. Here in France, its more on the chill side, maybe. People don’t go all the way if you know what I mean.
Why did they kick you out of America? Do you care about coming back?
It was a big misunderstanding. Do I care to come back? That’s all I want to do. Hopefully I’ll be in San Francisco for the
Gypsy Life
premiere.
Have you every had any experiences with real gypsies?
Oh fuck, man. I have too many stories to tell. I have witnessed so many scams. Real gypsies do whatever they want. Perpignan, where I live in the South of France, has the real gypsy camps. They drive brand new BMWs.
50-50.
Photo: Zaslavsky
Who on the Cliché team is the most like a gypsy in real life?
Lucas when he was younger.
This was your first Gypsy Tour, right?
Yes, but I’m used to doing these kinds of trips with my friends.
So the trip wasn’t out of the norm for you?
No, it wasn’t that hard ‘cause I brought my own pillow and lots of socks. But you have to watch the video to truly understand the experience.
Ollie over the rail into the skinny bank.
Photo: Zaslavsky
What was a low point of the trip?
When we had to set up our tents with a crazy storm going on. It was insane!
How about a high point?
When I arrived in Lyon on the last day.
Who was this year’s MVP? LVP?
Kyron was the MVP ‘cause he fit perfectly with the gypsy spirit. Lem was the LVP ‘cause he escaped the first week like a pussy.
Would you go again?
No. It was too long. It was like torture.
River 360 flip.
Photo: Zaslavsky
What advice would you give to somebody going on one of these trips?
My advice is that you have to do one tour like this in your lifetime. For the memories.
What do you think a realistic per diem should be these days?
Ten grams of green and way more money. But honestly, 15 euros a day is too much for a real gypsy.
What do you hope for the future?
La Santé, La Famille et le porte monnaie (health, family and the wallet).

---

Click images to enlarge.
Jamie Thomas sits down with the Zero Army's latest recruit to discuss his hard-charging “No Cash Value” Part. Producing a part for Zero is a big deal. It instantly signifies you went full-psycho on your skateboard. Here's an interview with the ripper himself.
Have you ever had an interview before?
Nah, I’ve never had an interview before for anything.
So this is history in the making. Let’s start off with the basics: how old are you, where are you from and when did you start skating?
I’m 22, I’m from Virginia Beach, Virginia, and I started skating when I was about 11 or 12.
What got you into skating?
I think my mom's friend's son had a board and I kinda just used his and picked it up from there. Then I got a board the next Christmas and it just stuck—skating over manhole covers in the neighborhood.
Who were your influences growing up?
Pat Burke was a big influence, locally, and after I saw
Kids In Emerica
I was hyped on Reynolds and Leo.
Did you skate with Pat growing up?
Nah, not at all. I used to go to this website vafleezers.com and there would be montages with Pat and all of the local dudes. That was the crew that me and my friends looked up to.
When did you first get sponsored?
I got sponsored when I was 13 by this shop called Hotline. it doesn’t exist anymore.
How did you start getting stuff from Zero?
My homie Stephen Mullen was riding for Mystery and he put in a good word with Bama, the Zero Team Manager, and sent him a link to my footy. He hit me back a few days later and it’s been going ever since.
Why did you pick Zero to send your footage to?
I always looked up to the Zero dudes, for sure, but Stephen kinda guided me there. I know Zero is picky about putting people on, so I didn’t think I had a chance, but it was worth a shot.
You were on flow for several years. Why do you think it took so long to officially get on the team?
Well, I guess coming from the East Coast probably had something to do with it 'cause I wasn’t in California very often and it took a while to get to know everyone. I got a call from Ryan Bobier one day and he asked if I could go on the
Cold War
tour and that was the first day I met everyone.
How was that tour for you?
It couldn’t have gone any better. I had no idea what to expect. I couldn’t believe I got money for food. It was the first time I ever got money from skateboarding. We went through the South and into Raleigh and it was cool to see everyone and skate some of the spots with the team that we’ve been skating for so long.
Of everyone on the Zero team, whose approval do you think was the hardest to earn?
Dane, hands down. He was also the one I was most nervous about meeting. All I had heard was how much of an asshole he was, but he’s a cool-ass dude. Well, until he watched me type in my password on my phone and then I fell asleep and he posted his nuts on my Instagram and sent pictures of himself to my girlfriend. When I woke up I had a shitload of notifications and I looked at my photos and it was just his nuts chillin'. Brass commented on the photo, “nice hair.” Dane's cool as shit, but he can definitely rub you the wrong way.
Were you pissed about all that?
I wouldn’t say pissed, but I was definitely irritated. I got over it, though.
Don’t you think that’s the role of the new kid?
What, to get picked on? Yeah, I’d probably say so. I feel like anyone going on a tour and meeting dudes for the first time is going to get picked on.
Seems like you discovered a ton new things that were pretty basic on that trip. For example, you were tripping out on pita bread like it was the best invention ever. Had you really never seen or heard of pita bread? Didn’t they have that when Jesus was alive?
Well, that was the first time I’d heard of it and tried it. Yeah, that shit’s good.
How do you think you made it to be 20 years old without ever seeing pita bread?
I have no idea. Maybe I’d seen it but didn’t pay attention. Someone shared some with me and I was shocked how good it was. At that same meal, I had a large Dr. Pepper and it was in a styrofoam cup and Dane poked a hole in the bottom of it when I wasn’t looking and all my soda drained out on the floor.
That’s a classic move. How did you figure out what happened?
Well, it was a fully-filled large soda and I took one sip then set it down. Next sip it was was empty. I couldn’t figure it out and I looked at the bottom and saw that it had a hole in it. I didn’t think anything of it, so I got up and got another cup and then ten minutes later it happened again. I looked at the bottom of the cup and everyone just started laughing.
You got any more Dane stories from that trip?
Yeah, I do. We were in South Carolina and I had a super-gnarly hipper and we were walking back to the van. Dane came running up behind me and slapped the shit out of my hip with his insole. I was instantly pissed. I asked him why he did it and his response was, “Stop being a pussy!” I just got in the van. I wanted revenge, but I barely even knew the dude and I didn’t want to get into a war.
Did you ever feel like those experiences were starting to make you a part of the team?
Maybe not a part of the team, but maybe they were just trying to see how far they could push me 'til I cracked. It was almost like they were testing my dedication to team.
Okay, let’s talk about your new part. You only had three or four months to film your
No Cash Value
part and you had a job the whole time. How hard is it working a full-time job and trying to film?
Definitely hard at times, especially when you can’t get time off. But luckily my boss let me take off two to three days a week and I was able to spend those days filming. I wash boats and when winter time came I got more time off 'cause work slows down. I went to North Carolina every weekend I could and then me and my friend John took a trip to Florida and the weather was perfect. That’s probably when I got the most done.
Do you have any goals for skateboarding or are you just going with the flow?
I’m not very good strategizing or planning, so in that aspect I just kinda go with the flow. But I definitely do have goals of becoming a professional skateboarder one day, but 'til then my goals are just to skate as much as possible and be the best I can.
For a long time you were adamant about staying on the East Coast, but recently you’ve been talking about moving to California. Why the change of heart?
I don’t enjoy flying and I know overall it would make it easier for everything I’m trying to do in skating. Also, my girlfriend wants to become a nutritionist and I feel like it would make more sense for her to do that there, 'cause people here aren’t too concerned about nutrition. The weather is also nice. But if we do move I’ll definitely miss the seasons.
Do you feel any pressure to get gnarly from some of the past Zero team and videos or is that something you look forward to?
I feel like there's a standard or a legacy to live up to based on all of the Zero videos, but that pushes me and intimidates me in a way. I feel like it will help me out in the long run, though.
Who are your favorite people to skate with?
Back home: John Evans, Blake Scott, V-neck and Kevin Love when he’s in town and a bunch of my homies from North Carolina and Virginia. When I’m in California, it’s sick to go out with Brockman, Brass, Kurt, Buya and Forrest. He always keeps it interesting.
What is your definition of success?
Achieving all of the goals you set for yourself.
What is skateboarding to you?
Skateboarding is having as much fun as possible with your friends and staying productive.
Is there anyone you would like to thank?
All my friends, my family for supporting me, can’t thank all my sponsors enough for keeping me rolling: Zero, Vans, Thunder, Spitfire, Altamont and Cardinal skateshop, my homie John for filming me in 20-degree weather. Everyone that’s helped me along the way and my girlfriend Kayla for taking care of me and being there every step of the way.

---

You can learn a lot about somebody by being stuck in a van with them for a few weeks. I first met Tyler Surrey on a road trip and quickly realized how talented he is on the board. But as we all know, that's not always enough. Tyler is also really easy going, patient and able to hang with the big dogs—no matter what the situation entails. He's also super productive, regularly clocking the majority of footage on filming missions. His and Wes Kremer's
Pack of Hydes
part is dropping on the
Thrasher
site today, so this seemed like a good time to catch up with Mr. Surrey. He's one of the hemmys, for sure. —
Schmitty
Where did you grow up, Tyler?
San Diego. Mostly in University City and Clairemont.
What was your first legit skateboard?
The first one I can remember was a Plan B pat Duffy board with some Indys and blank wheels.
First legit sponsor?
This local skate shop called Sun Diego. Before that was my mom.
Nollie bs 180  Photo:Rhino
Current sponsors?
Sk8mafia, New Balance Numeric, Independent, OJ wheels, JSLV, Paradox, and Mosaic bearings.
How did you get on Mafia?
Pretty much just skating with Dan and Smolik back in the day. That was the crew. Then it just somehow materialized into a board company.
Whats a typical day in the life of Surrey?
Wake up, coffee and/or smoothie, meet up with the mates and cruise around somewhere. Pretty simple and ordinary stuff. Lately we've been skating everyday and into the night because the days are so short. Downtown San Diego at night is so fun. Skate the Concourse.
Nollie flip nose Photo:Hammeke
Switch ollie  Photo:Rhino
Five reasons to live in SD?
The weather, the mates, Standley, the beach and It's comfortable and familiar. That's a good and bad thing, though.
If you were going to move to some place other than San Diego, where would you go?
Madrid, España, because it's my home away from home. It's very mellow and a lot of my Spanish friends live there.
Who are the main hemmys you skate with?
All the mafia hemmys and Marius, my homie Kai when he's not working and with Russell and the New Balance dudes when they can convince me to drive up to LA.
For the uninformed, break down the following terms: a hemmy, the Gov., a G and a legend.
A hemmy is a homie. The Gov. is Marius, the governor. But a Gov. is also someone who is just handling a sticky situation with ease—just governing the situation.  A G could be a few things, but let's just say a gangster, a homie, or a gram. And a legend would be Cardiel.
Switch bs flip Photo:Rhino
Switch bs smith Photo: Hammeke
Give us a good story about the Gov.
I remember one night in Helsinki, years ago, we were all sitting on top of this, like, 14-foot wall getting faded with all the Perus homies. After a couple hours, we realized that the wall we were sitting on was actually kind of a bank that you could
maybe
drop in on. Without hesitation, the Gov. gets up, grabs a random board and tries to drop in on this steep beast of a wall. He hits the flat and just pitches into the ground. He climbs back up and tries it again—and again and again with random homies' boards. I don't think he ever pulled it, but the next morning I took a photo of his bloody ass shirt and swollen bloody hands and knuckles. True governor status.
When jumping into a van for a two-week skate trip, what are the essentials to bring with you?
Well, depending on the trip, camping stuff, music (iPod or instruments), camera, some earth, water and fire.
Who are the top five guys you want in the van on this imaginary trip?
Any and all of the Mafia homies, Marius, Cranny, Russell and Ron Allen.
Random question: why do you despise Subway?
I worked there when I was 15 or 16. I ended up getting a stomach flu one day after work, and I ate there almost every day, so I associated Subway with that feeling of being ill and vomiting violently. Ten years Subway free!
Switch fs flip Photo:Hammeke
What's your sketchiest experience with the police while skating?
Luckily, not too many sketchy stories. I guess skating this big four at Clairemont High School. I was battling a trick and saw the cops walking up. I locked eyes with the officer while rolling up to the stairs and proceeded to give it one last try. I bailed and my board landed at his feet and he kicked it. He was so furious that I didn't stop skating upon eye contact. They then proceeded to take photos of all the damage at the school and pinned it on me and Smolik. We got off in court with a ticket and a one-year restraining order from the school. Also, If you're going to Arizona on a skate trip, don't take the 8 east. Avoid those border stops.
Where did the nickname "Tooksie" come from?
This bullshit story that got all blown up thanks to Rodney Johnson. We were on a Billabong trip and I was looking for some hash. Moments before getting in the van to drive to the next city on the trip, I met a guy selling some. I'm not completely stupid. I checked it out and made sure it was decent. In between being in a rush to leave, having this French guy translating for me when I didn't need him to, and being sketched out on the situation, he pulled the ole switcheroo in the pocket. He handed me the decoy Tootsie Roll and we left instantly. Before I knew it, I was in the van holding a 40-Euro piece of candy and getting called "Tooksie" by Rodney and Marius for the next six hours of the drive.
Top 5 influential skaters and why?
Penny. Watching him skate just helps you make sense of life. He had it
more
than figured out. Wes Kremer for the same reason. Cardiel for his overall outlook and just the hype he can give you from watching his skating. Just hearing the name gets you hyped. Like Phelps said, "You know who's back there? Cardiel is back there. You know what that means? That means get some." Gonz for the style and flow and level of shit he was doing, and still does, for street skating. There's too many to name. I would say Jake Johnson. Ever since his Chapman video part I've been a fan of everything he does. He's a very smart, opinionated person, too. I like reading what he has to say.
What do we need to know about this
Pack of Hydes
part you and Wes are droppin' on the
Thrasher
site?
All the footage was pretty much just accumulated as a byproduct of skating and there happened to be a camera nearby to film with. I found out about this video, like, three weeks ago, so the last couple weeks were the only time I went out filming with a specific video project in mind.
How did 'Hyde' originate?
Hahaha. I actually don't really know. Wes started calling everyone that on DC trips and it just stuck.
What's your favorite Wes Kremer story—off a skateboard?
Probably him telling me how he skated home on the freeway one night back in the day. That involves a skateboard, though.
The ol' toss the bottle trick Photo:Hammeke
Who do you think should be SOTY this year?
I can't answer that without being biased, but I would say Wes. I know it comes down how much coverage a person's had and all these factors, but he's someone that always puts out quality over quantity, and there's been a heavy supply of gnar-ness from Krems this year. In our little world, he's SOTY every year to me. He's blown my mind more times than i can count.
Future projects?
Just try to travel, stay moving and healthy—not be too tied down to any person or place. That's the plan.
Last words?
Thrasher
, you're awesome. Thank you.

---

Catch up with Ice Cream's Emmet Duffy in this Q & A then watch him shred the Uprise warehouse.
Name:
Emmet Duffy
Age:
23
Hometown:
Chicago, IL
Sponsors:
Gold wheels, Zoo York, Nike SB, ICECREAM, Melin Headwear, Krush, Uprise skateshop
360 flip  Photo: Cronan
First Board:
Man, I had some piece of shit non-skate shop board to start. I think my brother gave me a Mariano or Koston board and some Orion trucks after that.
Getting On:
The Uprise skateshop crew is all my close homies. That’s who I’m always with and where I’m always at. Getting on just kinda happened naturally. Uprise is Chicago. You gotta rep your people and where you’re from. Getting on ICECREAM was a little more unexpected. I didn't know the TM Ben (Oleynik), but our mutual friend Chaz (Ortiz) had been showing him some footage of me and I guess he was hyped on it. He got in touch with me and talked a bunch about ICECREAM coming back as apparel, and how he wanted me on the team.  It sounded mad dope so I was super hyped to get down. Traveling with the homies skating is a dream come true. So I'm mad thankful for that.
Front nose grind Photo: Frank Verges
Go To Trick:
Switch tailslide variations or switch back heels.
Go To Spot:
Anywhere on the lake in Chicago. Mad new shit popin up there.
Video Part on repeat:
Lucas Puig , Chaz Ortiz, Furby.
Contests:
Contests are dope. I like the hype sometimes. I grew up skating the streets though. So I'm definitely more into skating spots and shit.
Trees:
Everyday.
Music:
Random rap shit.
Food:
Pizza , Burgers. I need to start eating healthy though.
Kickflip Photo: Cronan
Best trip:
Japan a few months ago with ICECREAM or Puerto Rico in 2011 with Affiliate.
Next Trip:
Denver—that'll be chill.
Teammates:
Jamel (Marshall) and Andre (Beverley) and are my bros. These fools are mad funny. They’re dope. I'm super hyped to be able to travel with them and just talk shit and skate. They hold it down!
Thank you's:
Big thanks to Ben Oleynik and Pharrell! Jake Mednik, Eli Soto and everyone at Gold wheels! Thank you to all my homies in Chicago, my family, Bob Fairbaine and Krush. Uriah and everyone at Uprise, Thrasher, Mark Mastrandrea and everyone at Melin luxury headwear.  David Fink and Rob Sissi at Nike! Cronan and RB. Thank you Reggie Destin (rest in peace g).

---

Photo: Zaslavsky
Posted: March 10th, 2010
"You can't hate on that."
Interview by Jake Phelps
Why’s the LRG video called “Give Me My Money, Chico?”
The video started off travelling with the guys, going to spots, and pretty much betting people to skate.  Most of the time I win. ’Cause I know they ain’t gonna make the shit. It’s a little incentive. I wanna actually see the dudes make it, get ’em hyped.
You guys shot it around the world. You got big juice— everywhere I look it’s giraffes and shit. What about elephants?
That’s Mike V’s shit so we can’t do that.
What about rhinos? Africa? What is it?
It’s just roots. A giraffe on a skateboard, it’s just something new.
An original? I ain’t never seen nothing like that.
An original. That’s some gangster shit right there.
You’re from Serramonte, Daly City?
Well, I’m from Nicaragua. You know how I came here, right?
I know. It’s why you’re the American dream.
The American dream—I crossed  the border and went straight on over  to EMB.
You couldn’t speak English?
Nah. None.
How old were you? Thirteen?
I was probably 10, 11.
And you went to Embarco  right then.
Right then! No, I probably started skating a few years after that.
Lipslide. Photo: Zaslavsky
But you knew the Carroll’s since before EMB.
I knew Mike and Greg. Henry Sanchez and Mike, I used to go to school with them in Daly City.  I happened to live like, seriously, five houses away from Mike. He had the mini-ramp, so we’d go over there and skate with him and Greg. One time me and my boy Angelo were knocking on the door and they weren’t there, so we snuck in and skated the ramp—it turned out those dudes were at skate camp so we were skating the ramp everyday. And we thought they were coming home on Sunday, but they showed up on Friday. Greg was like, “Dude, what the fuck? What are you guys doing here?” Seriously, so pissed. “We’re just skating the ramp!” Mike was pissed at me for about a year. But he’s pissed about everything. I heard you’re pretty psyched on the new
Thrasher
video. Pretty proud.
You know how it is Cheeks, everything’s a collab.
Then it’s time to do the LRG/Thrasher/Chocolate collab.
But the LRG video’s just dropping. You’re gonna do two videos  in two years? I hate to say it, but it’ll be four.
Seeing how long it took to get the Lakai video out, I’m hoping we have that much time.
That was the last of the big videos. Now it’s straight to the ’Tube.
The ’Tube is killing us.
The Internet is killing skating because people want to talk shit, but other people get really frustrated about the comments. It trips me out because skating is so big now; I see it when I’m at the park with the kids.
I see you there at 8 in the morning. Shredding, dude. I’m like, “Wow, Jake is a trooper.”
You’re pretty good with the kids, too. “Here’s a sticker, let’s play a game of SKATE.” That’s what it takes. Those moments when I see the kids hyped on skating, it makes me feel like we all did it right. It’s not something fake. It’s real. Skating will teach you a lot.
When I was coming up, I remember  Jim Thiebaud giving me a board. I was so grateful; I still remember that shit to this day.
What board? TG?
No, even before Real. It was an SMA board, the one with the superhero on it. The Punisher. I was just skating and he was like, “Here.”  Just took it apart and gave it to me. I’m still so thankful for him doing that.
I have those memories too. I remember what certain skateparks smelled like, buying boards, thinking about the boards on the wall. Skateboarding is a special thing that has to be passed on from generation to generation. That’s why we stuck with it.
But what trips me out are kids nowadays, kids at the demos asking for things: “Yo, lemme get that!” It was never about that back in the day. I remember going to the demos just to see dudes rip. It was never about, “Lemme get a board! Lemme get your hat!”
Well, we created that whole society. Where TMZ and everyone else in the world is saying shit. It’s like, “Well you ain’t cashing the checks, fucker. Shut up.” Look at Tiger Woods. We create this billion dollar athlete and then we just drag him down through the mud, just to watch this dude crumble. That’s America. And then when he wins again? “I was backing that dude all the time! I wasn’t talking shit, I didn’t tell no jokes. I know that dude. He’s hella funny.” What’s the best place you travelled while filming for your new vid? Shanghai?
Yeah. We went to Shenzen—China has some good spots. I’ve been out there five times.
Did you backside nollie heelflip that  brick gap?
No, Silas did. I can’t use it now… Nah, I didn’t even do it.
Varial heelflip manual to fakie nose manual
. Photo: Brook
As it turns out, in your interview in the new mag, you’ve got a nollie  back heel.
That’s my go-to. Nollie heel is one of my favorite tricks. I was talking to Diego Bucchieri, and he said that in Argentina they call nollie back heels Chico flips.
See? I used to call backside nollie flips on flat banks the Coco flip. Mike Carroll does a really good nollie flip, too. So how many shoes have you had now?
Maybe four. Not too many.
But the shoe checks pay for the family.
Dude, the shoe checks’ll buy me a mansion in Nica.
A mansion in Nica! By the beach. And when you go on a skate mission there you bring Danny Montoya and all the people who look just like you?
All Latin people, man. Rob G, Danny Fuenzalida, Vincent Alvarez…
Vincent Alvarez is hot as fuck. He’s one of my favorite skaters.
Yeah. We’re lucky to have him. We’re so psyched. He skates everything, man. Everything. Every spot that I took him to in Nica, he shut it down.
That’s your money man. The Chocolate vid is coming out this year?
Probably Summer, I’m hoping. As soon as we’re done with the LRG thing I’m getting  to it with the Chocolate video. I love working, man. I love it. I love traveling, and I love  skateboarding. And now I’m doing that shop in Nica, blowing up skateboarding for the  kids out there.
Sheckler did that—he got a foundation. The Ryan Sheckler Foundation.
I’m about to do that too.
You fixin’ to do that too? Write some tax money off!
I want to do that, the Chico Brenes Foundation in Nica. It would be cool to  get product from all my sponsors and help  kids out down there. It’s a third world  country, man.
It’s like what you were just saying  about Jim Thiebaud giving you a board, and how blessed you felt. Like, “Wow, can you believe that I just got this shit  for free?”
Sal Barbier also hooked me up back in the day. He gave me the H-Street board with the Kings graphic.
Kings? It was a Raiders board.
Wasn’t it Kings? It was Raiders, then.  My bad. I was so psyched I didn’t even want  to set that board up. He gave me mad  H-Street gear.
He had the backside noseblunt on Carroll’s ramp. It was a sequence in a Spitfire ad.  Does Nica have a skatepark that’s worth a fuck now?
No. I’m gonna do that next.
Build a skatepark that everybody can have. Some of that shit’s looking pretty budget.
What do you expect? It’s the third world. If the California skatepark dudes want to come down,  I’ll buy them a ticket and give them a place to stay if they want to help out and contribute to building  a buttery-ass plaza. I can’t pay them… Tony Hawk, come on. Help me out over here.
You can’t pay them yet. That’s all you gotta do. Ask him. He’ll be happy to help you.
I gotta get you on a trip. Let’s go to Nica. I’m going in February.
I can’t go right now, but I’d love to get on a Chocolate trip. What town is it in Nicaragua?
Managua.
That’s the capital? There’s volcanoes  there, right?
We have beautiful volcanoes. It’s tight. I love it.
What you should do is set up a skate camp there. You could bring people down and immerse them in the culture. That way you could show your side of it, and then bring the Nicaraguan kids to America…
Yo, it’s all in the plan, Jake. Small steps, though.
How many babies you got now?
I got 20 babies. Like Karl Watson.
He’s got 20 babies?
No. I have two. My son is 13, he’s going to high school next year.
He was at Bust or Bail. Sheckler told me that was the best day of his life in skateboarding.
No way.
Chico flip. Photo: Colen
Three flip, backside flip, hard flip, back lip  to fakes…
You can’t hate on that.
What kinda car you got?
A Ford Pinto. On rims. Twenty-twos.
You wanna give big props?
Everybody in the SFC.
You can never fade SF. People tell me all  the time—I see them around the world— “Yeah, I did SF for a couple years.”
And then you ask them where, and they say  “San Mateo.” I can’t claim SF because I’m from  Daly City. My girl’s from San Francisco, and she clowns me every time. She puts me in check: “Oh, what part of SF are you from?” “Uh… Daly City.”
Last call right here.
Shouts out to LRG, Chocolate, DVS,
Thrasher
, Autobahn, Indy, and everyone who’s had my back since I first crossed the border.
And you’re gonna go back across that border and be a king when you get home.
Classics: Jeron & Chico

---

Posted: March 8th, 2010
"I don't know if I should be discussing this stuff.  It's top secret."
Interview & photos by Ben Karpinski
Where are you from, who do you ride for, and so forth?
I’m from Melbourne, Australia, and I ride for Almost skateboards, Nike SB, Volcom clothing, Thunder trucks, Spitfire wheels, Modus bearings, and Muse Audio.
Have you always lived in Australia?
I was born in Australia, then moved back  and forth between Australia and Sweden until around 2002 when I moved back to Australia for good.
Did you begin skateboarding in Australia or Sweden?
I started skating in Australia for about a year or so before I moved to Sweden. When I moved there, skateboarding was definitely still new for me. It was pretty tight; I met a bunch of new people and saw all the cool skateparks. It just sparked it for me. Growing up in Sweden, I started traveling and taking trips into other surrounding countries. You could hop on a train or get a flight real quick. We used to get a flight down to Malmo in the bottom of Sweden and take a ferry across to Denmark. Then we’d go skate in Copenhagen or go hang out in Christiania.
I’ve heard cool stuff about Christiania. You have any Penny stories from there?
One of the first times I really left town with the homies was on a trip to a contest in Malmo. After the contest, instead of heading home, my homies were talking about this mini-ramp being built in Christiania. We decided to check it out. When we showed up, Penny was there chilling and helping build this ramp—the one in the ad where he’s blasting the frontside flip in black and white.
With the bowl in the background?
That’s the one. This was when Penny went so-called “missing,” and all of a sudden he was there. As soon as they got the first bits of plywood down he was shredding. It was cool, man. It was good to see that; I was always a huge fan of Penny.
Hardflip
You were saying that Menace was the first board company to hook you up.
Kareem came out to do a demo when I first moved to Sweden. He saw me skating at the park and told me he wanted to hook me up with some stuff and put me in connection with the distributors in Sweden that carried his product. I skated for the distributor for a bit. Kareem ended up coming back again and doing some more demos, and because I was riding  for the distributors I got to skate the demos.  I remember it was an Axion trip with Gino,  Guy Mariano, and Kareem. I did demos with them, and afterwards he told me he wanted to get me product straight from the States. That’s when I started getting Axion shoes and Menace boards, but I got stuff from those guys for years. I went through all the name changes from Menace to All City to City Stars.
Since you moved around growing up, were your parents supportive of your skating?
They were supportive of the skating, but with the skateboarding came other stuff like ditching school, because I just wanted to skate. I would be sitting in class looking out the window at a set of stairs and that’s all I could think about. Then I moved to Sweden and started ditching school more to
go skate. It got to a point where my dad called my sponsors and told them to stop sending me stuff because it was getting in the way of school.
Did you graduate  high school?
No, I didn’t. By 11 or  12 I was already ditching school to go skate.  By the time I was a teenager I was just over it. At this point my mom was living in Australia. One year I came out, I think it was my birthday, and we were having this barbeque at her  house. At the time I wanted to move back to Australia and really concentrate on skateboarding. Dustin Dollin was talking to my mom at the party, and my mom told Dustin that skateboarding was getting in the way of my schooling. I just remember Dustin slamming his fist on the table and saying, “Hell no, schooling is getting in the way of Lewis’ skateboarding!” He talked to her a bunch that night and kind of convinced her that I could do something with skateboarding, and she let me move back to Australia.
When did you start growing the dreads?
Around 2004 and I haven’t really looked back since.
Are there any downsides to having them?
Just the usual, “Where’s the weed at?” Sometimes my friends get dragged into it, too. The other day when we all walked into the burrito spot, you were wearing the tie-dye shirt and I had the dreads, and some guy walks up to Nick Garcia, laughs, and says, “Munchies, huh?” We were just coming home from skateboarding and hadn’t even been smoking.
Who’s the toughest dread on a board?
I saw a tight Karl Watson clip on the Internet the other day. Always been backing that dude. Who do you think is the toughest?
Backside lipslide kickflip out
Neen Williams is my vote.
Oh yeah, Neen! He’s tight. I’ve been skating with him a bit on this trip. He’s one of the toughest dreads on a board. Keeps a good vibe when he skates too. Wooo-wooo!
What’s the most effort you’ve ever seen Jason Hernandez put into making a spot skateable?
Dude, that guy has everything on lock down. He’s the best dude ever to skate with. He makes anything work.
His truck seems more like an assault vehicle than a car.
He’s prepared for everything. I don’t know if I should be discussing this stuff. It’s top secret.
I saw you doing some pretty jacked flatground tricks the other day. What are some random flip tricks you could pull out in a game of SKATE against someone like Cory Kennedy?
Hopefully I’d win the roshambo, otherwise my throat would be cut. But I was getting those 360 flips with the 360 body varial the other way. I don’t know what those are called, but I would probably just go straight for the most ridiculous tricks I could think of.
You skate a lot of ledges, but you also jump down some pretty hefty gaps. Is there one you prefer more than the other?
I don’t know. I love skating ledges, but sometimes it tests the patience. Whereas when you skate a gap, you’ve just got to get yourself to land on your board. I used to be picky with what I skated, and it would wind up with me not skating. Now I try to skate everything, even if it’s something I can’t skate that well.
The cops rolled us the other day,  and I saw you give him an Australian learner’s permit. You have a car but no license yet?
Funny story. Last time I was here in the States I got sick of having to rely on everyone else, because you really need a car in Southern California. So when I got back to Australia  I got my permit. Now I have to drive with someone with a license. Nobody would let me drive with them, though, because I wouldn’t be covered under their insurance—so after getting denied by too many homies I just went out and bought a car. I’m going to get my license when I get home, though.
Switch heelflip
When we were shooting the portrait for this interview, you hid our camera bags. It seems like you’re always jumping out of doorways scaring people. What’s  the best prank you’ve ever pulled?
I think I was a better prankster in my younger days. When I was 13 or so my friend and I managed to get a hold of some acid. My friend’s parents owned an antique shop, and their apartment was in the back of it. Eventually we decided we’d get dressed up in all the antique clothes, in all the furry jackets and crazy hats, and pretend to be mannequins. People would look in the front window and we’d make sudden movements to scare them. That was my younger years, though. I don’t really mess with the stuff anymore.
Are you the first pro skater diabetic?
I’m sure there are some other diabetics out there, but I don’t really know of any who are professional skateboarders.
We were looking at a list earlier of famous diabetics, and there are some pretty big names on there. Looks like you’ve got a solid squad going.
There are a lot of famous diabetics out there. We’ve got Ghost Face Killa, Johnny Cash,  Syd Barrett, Elvis Presley, I think Halle Berry, James Brown. I’m in good company.
What’s your favorite candy to munch on for the quick fix of the blood sugar?
Gummy sour watermelon candy, for sure.
I keep seeing legitimate veteran pros getting cut from their sponsors. Do you have any plans for after skateboarding?
I do have this idea. If you’ve ever been to Denmark, they have these bikes—it’s a normal bike in the back, and then it has two wheels on the side and this big box up front. I wanted to paint one up all nice and have an umbrella up top, speakers, generator, and an espresso machine. Ride around busy areas all day and sell coffee. People pay—what—four to five dollars a cup? I can sell it for three.
Tailslide frontside flip out
. Photos: Camarillo
Trying to take out Starbucks?
I’ll take out Starbucks in a second. I make  a bangin’ coffee.
You got a name for this bike yet?
No, not yet.
What about Jah-va?
I’ll get back to you on that one.
Hear any good jokes lately?
My homie Sean just told me a good one. A bra and a set of jumper cables walk into a bar and try to order two beers. The bartender denies them. The bra then asks the bartender why they were denied, and he says, “Because you’re off your tits and it looks like your friend is about to start some shit."

---

Posted: February 24th, 2010
"You have to learn to either shine it or grind it."
Interview by Scotty McDonald | Photos by Rhino
Confidence and cockiness
are completely different things. Cockiness is loud, brash, abrasive, and will only get a person so far—usually in over their heads. The cocky always have something to prove, and that’s where the two differ: Confidence has nothing to prove. It’s loyal and reliable. Real confidence knows that it can finish what it starts and roll away. Eman is pure confidence, and the way he skates shows it: Fast, really fast, and powerful. Maybe this confidence comes from having grown up in some of the less-scenic parts of Santa Cruz, California, on the East Side amongst the Vatos, surfers, kooks, trannies, tamale ladies, ice cream trucks, and three older siblings who didn’t allow cockiness as an option. Ladies and gentlemen, Emmanuel Guzman.
WSVT frontside bluntslide
Do all professional athletes break  their cigarettes in half or is this something you get to do under the  big tent of skateboarding?
It’s a personal decision, especially when  I smoke American Spirits. I really like  these cigs but they take too long to burn  so I expedite the process by breaking the tip off; then I’m almost done before I know it.   And then you only feel half as bad.
Do you think that one day you’ll have  to make some serious decisions  between skateboarding and your backgammon career?
I could see it happening. I’ve actually  been thinking about my chess career recently. I used to be in a chess club. You should know this; I’m a chess whiz. I just played my first game in a while—this guy challenged me to  a game at his house and I whooped him.
You beat me, usually, in chess. Oh usually?
Yeah, I beat everybody, usually. I’m good.
Wood-on-wood back tail. Photo: Camarillo
So what’s Mini Shaka?
Mini Shaka is our band. Noah Quale’s  on guitar, Carlos or Matt Carlen or whoever wants in is on drums, and I’m on vocals. I’m the one making noise screaming at people.
What are you going to sing about?
Screaming at people.
You’re going to sing about screaming  at people?
The taco truck, the ice cream man…
Now why is the ice cream man an invited, welcome part of any suburban community, but if you’re driving around in a taco truck the people aren’t going  to be stoked?
The tamale lady is kind of the equivalent of the ice cream man, but the taco truck is actually business-oriented. The ice cream man and the tamale lady have got side hustles going on. Which I can’t speak about in the songs, but it will be in the subliminal messages.
The taco truck is a legitimate business.
They are legitimate.
Pop shove-it, over the wall and into the bank
They’re bringing lunch to the contractors, the gardeners.
The ice cream man and the tamale lady are legitimate but they’ve just got a side hustle going on.
Like what?
I can’t speak about that over the airwaves.
Are they selling Tupperware?
We’ll suppose. But I support them.  Any flavor ice cream for a dollar.
Like those weird icy Mexican ones  that fall off the stick?
The ones that melt before you can  finish them.
I’ll take an IT’S-IT any day of the week.
So, Merle or Waylon?
I could go Waylon but I’m going Merle.
Front crooks to fakie
Well, Waylon’s dead.
Well then I’m going both. It doesn’t matter; all the greats are dead. I’m going Merle, Waylon, and Willie.
Willie’s not dead.
Johnny.
Johnny’s dead.
Kristofferson! He’s coming to town. I named my cat Waylon. Well, my brother did.
Do you think that we should preserve  the tradition of the local shop demo?
One hundred-percent. I think the tradition of doing shop demos is the most OG real form of showing your support to the mom-and-pops of the community, more than anything. The opportunity to do shop demos still totally stokes me out every time. Those are the teachers and everyday ordinary people who make what we do possible to present to the younger people. I’ve always been down. The first memories I have of any skate events were Bill’s Wheels shop demos, and those were the shit. Since then it’s always been something that I’ve been down for. I think it’s cool. Generally the shops that you’re doing demos for truly support your shit, and you should be happy to do those; I always am. As long as they’re legitimate skateboard shops. I don’t like doing demos for shops that are big, corporate, non-skate orientated, in it for the self-promotion and publicity for their shop, rather than the ones that are in it to stoke out the community and support what’s going on there. I like doing them for the true skateboard shops, not the skate/snow/rollerblade/BMX/scooter shops. A core shop is 100-percent skateboarding.
Front feeble to forward. Photo: Brook
Like Bill’s Wheels.
Yeah. You don’t put your money into other eggs that may or may not hatch based on an investment, you put your eggs into a basket where they’re guaranteed to hatch and support something good. Support your mom-and-pop shops.
Bill wanted to ask if you feel like relating to the kids and being real with them is important to your success.
Yes. Without having a supportive fan base to back you, then who are you really trying to appeal to, you know? You can’t appeal to someone who doesn’t understand or relate to your life at least a little bit. Nine out of 10 times it’s going to be the kids that follow what’s going on in skating—but it’s also become this whole fantasy world where kids will support a name.
Or this scene, or this idea of a person.
Yeah.
What’s the idea that people have of  you? Like when a kid comes up to you  at a demo.
I don’t try to sell myself as a character; I don’t try and sell myself as this image. I think that my love of skateboarding and the things that I support in skateboarding—like we were saying, the mom-and-pop shops and not the giant corporate shit—is what comes across. Even though I’m involved with some pretty big brands I still have a family-type relationship with all the people I’m associated with. The kids can at least realize the value of loyalty, of being down for real-type stuff, and not the fantasy world that a lot of guys go out and try and portray skateboarding to be these days. It’s a trip to me that I even have any fans. I mean, I’m not shying away; I do try and promote my own things. That’s all I’ve got, that’s my living.
In through the out door–take the bank
That’s your job.
And it is as long as I keep up on it. The second I stop caring about what people fucking think I’m up to, I might as well not be doing it because that’s half of it, to let people know what you’re doing. It’s important to support the support; it’s huge. Like VOX—people that back your shit, back them. If kids are hyped on the fact that you just go out and skate and do your thing and they like your skating, tight. I’m stoked to give back to that type of community.
Are the kids all that different outside of the United States?
The kids are way different. The kids outside of the Mecca of skating, outside of California and the United States, are hungry as shit. They all dream about doing what we do, so they’re full of life and questions and curiosity about the skateboarding world. It’s rad; it’s super-invigorating.
Do some of these questions blow you away? What do these kids ask you?
I’ve had kids ask me everything from if they could come and live with me to “I heard you did this,” or “I heard this about you,” just totally unfathomable imaginative stories that they’ve conjured. And you just have to answer the best you can.
Does it ever seem like kids are memorizing the things you’ve done,  just like memorizing baseball stats?
People in general—not even kids—will do that always, because they’re nerds. If anybody even comes up and speaks to me about something that happened, pretending like they know what they’re talking about, half the time I don’t even know what they’re talking about. You just got to go along with it.
Bg Things: Front board, kickflip over the rail to drop in. Believe
Did you ever do that?
For sure. I still remember seeing games  of SKATE between Israel Forbes and Ron Whaley in high school, and I don’t know  if they were actually doing the tricks that  I remember them doing. I still ask Ron about the tricks that they were doing in a game of SKATE, and he’ll be like, “I don’t fucking know.” But I remember Rick flips and all this crazy shit, first try every try. So I’m still like a little kid. I understand where the kids are coming from. I don’t remember a lot of the stuff I’ve done. I don’t even remember all the photos I’ve got in this interview. I had to ask Rhino! There are maybe nine, but only three stick out in my mind. Maybe that says something about me. Take it or leave it.
Is there a trick that you wish you  could do that you can’t?
Five-forties.
You think you could do 540s  if you wanted to?
Yeah. It just has to be the right moment  and I’ll just start fuckin’ huckin’ ’em.   That reminds me of the 16 at  Harbor High.
It seems like you go  up to something with the full intention  of landing it, or you don’t do it at all.
What goes through your head when you’re rolling up to shit like that?
Basically that.
Backside flip at Derby. Photo: Zaslavsky
You have this gut feeling, like you  know your body knows how to do it?
When you’ve been to so many thousands  of spots in your life, you know which ones  feel good, which ones make you stoked,  which ones turn out okay, which ones don’t. You see the aftermath footage or photos and decide, “Rad, that was actually nice to do,”  or you’re just over it and you don’t want to have anything to do with it.
Do you care about ABDs?
If a spot hasn’t been hit, it turns me on way more. If no one’s ever skated a spot, it’s like, “Rad, I get freshies on it.” But sometimes you don’t care what’s been done. It’s one of my favorite quotes ever, Salman Agah: “‘Dude, it’s already been done.’ Not in this body.” Somebody might dog on that, but I truly don’t give a fuck. If I want to grind this but it was ground 20 years ago, I’m still going to grind  it because it’s there and I want to.
Fair enough.
Yeah, I think about that; I get sweated about that. It’s part of it. People are always going to tell you what’s been done somewhere, and  you have to learn to either shine it or grind it. Care or don’t care. I don’t care.

---

Beauty & The Beast 2
The Honeymoon's Over: Girl & Anti-Hero '09
by Schmitty
Beauty and the Beast 2 delivered the goods just in time for the perfect stocking stuffer. The epic journey continues for round two with Anti Hero and Girl. Names like Trujillo, Malto, Koston, McCrank, Anderson, Stranger, and Hewitt equals a no-brainer and if you don't know who Vincent Alvarez is...now you will.  This is the perfect video to not only get you hyped to skate but to hit the fuckin road with your bros and let the good times roll.
Two Dudes Named Aaron
The two main men behind the filming and editing of Beauty and the Beast 2 both have the name Aaron. I caught up with Meza and Chilen for a few quick questions about the trip.
AARON MEZA
How long was the trip, and how many parks did you hit?
About two weeks. Probably about 15 or so. Hella.
Is everyone over the wizard staff? I didn't notice any this time.
Some random tried to get one going. Don't even know if it got waist-high.
Did you still party like it was 1980?
I don't think there was too much '80s going on. But I'd definitely be the last to know.
What park was the favorite?
We stayed at Yakima for eight hours straight.
Who was MVP?
McCrank is always good on these and he's won a lot of trophies in his life, so I think he can handle this kind of adulation. But really I'd give it to Chris Pfanner or Vincent Alvarez. They kilt it.
How did this trip compare to last years?
Different route made for some more driving. Montana and Idaho were rad, though. It was cool because this time everyone knew each other right away so it was really comfortable. It felt like a reunion a bit. A BFF fest.
How did the absence of P-Stone hurt the trip?
The grill talk was hurting, for sure. All around positive vibes were probably down by about 4.3-percent, but Cardiel can always pick up the slack.
Best part of the trip?
Waking up next to Frank each morning.
Worst part?
Injuries.
When can people expect the video at their local shop?
Out now. We got some stockings to stuff.
AARON CHILEN
First time, right? How was going on BB2 different from other trips you've been on?
Huge crew, lotta bips, and Smyth had us sponsored by PBR.
Would you rather drive for a week or edit for a week?
Drive. That way you wind up somewhere sick and not in some room staring at T-Mo's face.
Had you worked with HD cameras before? What's your take on HD vs. the VX for skateboarding?
I filmed some shit at Miley with Alden's flip camera.  VX's still do the job, but they break all the time. After the Real video I'll switch to HD.  Every kid at every park has one now anyway, so might as well.
What park was the favorite?
Richmond plaza.
Who was MVP of the trip?
I was pretty impressed with Andrew off board throughout the trip.
There's a Beauty edit and a Beast edit. Did you do the Beast edit alone, or did Julien and Tony help out?
Same as last year.  We sent Peabody and Nagahara on a Greyhound trip with a laptop to edit the Beast.
Best part of the trip?
56 bips in a pillow, General Mills sighting in Portland, and everything about Missoula.
Worst part?
Losing Malto, Carroll, and Alex early.  Everything else was good times.

---

Posted: January 5th, 2010
"I was skating with an IV in my arm, just trying to keep it going."
Interview & photos by Rhino
How old are you and where did you grow up?
I just turned 20 years old, and I grew up in different parts of San Diego, CA. I’m still living in San Diego,  in Clairemont. It’s a two-bedroom apartment with no  AC and countless homies are always crashing there.
You have an interesting last name, “Hooker.”  What’s your middle name?
My middle name is Drew, but nobody’s ever called me  by that name.
Backside blunt
Have you ever heard of the TV show TJ Hooker?
I have heard of it, but never watched it. I think it’s some ’80s show about a cop.
I wonder why your parents didn’t give you a middle name that started with a J?
I figured out that my parents were definitely on a good one when picking my name. Even though it’s not TJ Hooker, there are hundreds of ways to fuck with my name. Come on, fool, True-man Hooker or Man Hooker. My parents must have planned this.
Backside 5-0
What are the first names of your parents and siblings?
My parents not only came up with a clever name for me, but they also messed with my sister. Her name is Allison, or more commonly know as Ally. Fucking “Alley” Hooker. I guess people will remember that name, but do you really want people to remember you as Ally Hooker?
Gap to front board
You go to one of the most prestigious schools in San Diego. How did a Creature dirtbag get  in there?
Getting into college and going to college was a little random. I had decent grades in high school, but I suck at those SAT tests. One day I received an  acceptance letter, and I decided to try it out.
Backside smith grind
Do you fit in with the other students there,  or do you do your own thing?
College isn’t that bad, but I honestly hate all the dudes there. Almost all of the guys are Chads and Marks who think they’re the shit because they get good grades.  The other people are God fans who try to preach to me about some religious bullshit.
I’ve been around that campus—the students are wearing Izod bullshit and looking preppy. Have you ever brought any homies like Silent Mike on campus?
Oh yeah. That little frog or alligator company is real big on campus. I think it’s called Lacoste or something. It seems that the bros in my classes spend more time picking their matching outfits than the girls do. The one good thing about University of San Diego is that there are plenty of girls ready to get slayed. I haven’t brought Silent Mike, but when I do he will not be disappointed. I brought one homie there to show him some spots around the campus, and when we stopped to get lunch a girl asked him if his tats were real. We looked at each other in disbelief, but long story short,  he ended up slaying the girl.
Basically you’re going to school to slay chicks?
Not really, but many of my friends have come to the school only for that reason.
What are you studying?
I’m studying business with an emphasis on marketing. I just finished taking my general education classes, so I’m just beginning to learn about the different ways of business.
Backside air to rail revert
Any skatespots at the school?
There are a few skatespots at USD, but they’re shitty. The campus is built on a huge hill so there are a lot of fun hills to bomb. In the day it’s comedy, because you’ll see flip-flop longboarders and Sector Nine bros getting smoked. Just the other day a longboarder was leaning forward and his backpack flipped and went over his face. He got speed wobbles and scorpioned into a stopped car.
How did you get into skating?
My older brother Jayme got me into skateboarding when I was about 10. I would always get his hand-me-down boards and would tag along with his friends. My friend down the street had a quarterpipe in his alley, and I have been skating ever since. Eventually our whole neighborhood was skating, even my sister at one point.
Backside lipslide frontside revert
Growing up skating around  San Diego, who were some of the first skaters you saw skate in person that were in magazines?
I would usually go to the Clairemont skatepark and I’d see Blender, Pineapple, Navarrette, Hewitt, and Hitz. It was insane watching them skate in person. I remember my friend and I getting hyped when Blender started to talk to my friend’s mom. We were like, “You just talked to Neil Blender.”
I remember meeting you two years ago. Navarrette was trying to get a street maneuver and needed someone to skate with. Hewitt was skating the Carlsbad gap so he was busy. Darren says,  “I know this kid in PB who keeps calling me  but I never pick up.” So he called you, you met us, and were ripping. That’s when Darren put you on the team, right?
Yeah. I’m pretty sure I bugged the shit out of Darren  at first. The first time we skated together was with just you, Darren, and Adrian, and we ended up having a  good day of skating with Darren taking us all to eat at Bennihanas. It was crazy, because I never thought that anything like this would happen. I was like, “Fuck, is this what it’s like everyday?”
Love-seat bluntslide
Go on a Nike trip sometime and that’s how it is. Favorite Creature dude?
Everyone on the team has their own style and everyone rips, but Silent Mike is my favorite. Even though he thought I was gay the first time he met me, he’s always down and never complains. Oh yeah, and he’ll skate anything you put in front of him.
Gnarliest Creature road trip story?
The gnarliest Creature road trip that I went on, or any road trip that I have been on,  was when the whole am team went across the country. We got one month of per diem but the trip lasted for three months. The gnarliest part of the trip for me was when I got Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Superbug (MRSA) in my face. We were in Salt Lake City and I didn’t want anybody to know, so I tried to go to the hospital at night. I had to go to the hospital two times a day for four days. I was skating with an IV in my arm, just trying to keep it going. It sucked, but I didn’t want to go home. Even though that happened, it was the best trip of my life.
Wallride yank-off
What happened at the Barrio park in  San Diego? Didn’t you see a shooting?
Me and my homie Barrio Mike were skating the back bowl, so we saw the whole thing.  A car just screeched to a stop, so that drew our attention at first. We looked over and saw this dude point his gun at the back of a homie’s head. Then we heard the shot and the dude just fell to the ground. When the cops came they immediately threw a blanket over his body. He was dead. Seeing that was horrible, but it puts your life into perspective real quick.
I hear you used to live in a garage around the corner from Nav’s at the beach.  You ever see Darren or Cranston lurking hard on the weekends?
I would see them every now and then coming back from the bar. One time they stealthily followed me back and threw some firecrackers at my door. As I put the key in the door I got lit up. Going to school in the morning, I would sometimes see the aftermath of the night before.
Frontside Smith bigspin out
Have you been skating the vert ramp with Darren and Sam lately?
Skating vert with them is always a good  time. You can do whatever you want up there and it’s fun to skate something different. Darren, Sam, Hewitt, and Div handle the  big guns.
Ever going to skate the Mega-Ramp?
I’m not sure if I could fly that far, we’ll see.
What’s your go-to trick over the gap?
There would be no go-to trick over the gap.  I would just be hyped if I landed on my board.
You always have a new spot. Where do these spots come from?
There are a lot of spots in San Diego—or anywhere, you just have to take the time to find them and maybe fix them. I enjoy making a new spots and making an old spots skateable, because it gives us a new place to go. I get burnt out going to the same spots over and over again.
Frontside nosegrind
The new Creature video is about to drop. I hear you have lots of footage.
I don’t know how much footage I have. I’ve just been trying to skate everyday.
I heard you guys are premiering it on Halloween in San Diego.
Yep, it’s going to be awesome. Halloween is the best day of the year.
How do you think the video is going to turn out?
The video is going to turn out insane, because the masterminds of Lee and Darren are behind it. It isn’t going to be like any other videos, it’s going to be pure hell.
Who’s going to have the best part?
I’m really excited to see Al’s part. He skates like nobody else and can skate everything.
Up and over into bank
And he’s a grown-ass man that skates harder than most young dudes.
Yes, that’s something you don’t see often.
Bingaman’s been on a terror lately.
Taylor can also skate anything, from a backyard pool to a 20-stair, and then end it at the vert ramp. He goes fast and doesn’t stop.
5-0  frontside 180 out
Five favorite skaters in San Diego?
Navarrette, Hewitt, Blender, Wes Kremer, and Smolik.
Top five favorite skaters ever?
Hewitt, Cardiel, Navs, Smolik, and Danny Way.
Boardslide through kink
Who’s your pick for SOTY 2009?
Shuriken Shannon. He’s always killing it.
If there was anywhere in the world you’d want to skate, where would it be?
Australia. The spots and parks look the best, and the place is amazing.
Backside 180
Let’s get a Creature trip going there in 2010. What do you think?
That would be the best way to start off the year. It would be a dream come true.
What happens if it’s during college time for two weeks? Are you going to flunk out for the Oz trip?
I would find a way to go on the trip without  a doubt. I wouldn’t miss a chance like that  for anything.
Let’s have the mandatory list of sponsors who hook you up.
Creature skateboards, Vox shoes, Bones, and Pacific Drive.
Damn, no energy drink sponsor?
Come on, it’s 2009. It’s not going to happen.

---

"I’ve always gotten hurt since I was born, I guess."
Interview by Joe Hammeke
So, yeah…  We hated him at first.
Looking back, how could you not? Drooling, marble-mouthed, premature maggot. But just like any parasite, it grows on you. He’s been feeding on our traditions and laws for so long now that I almost forgot about the runt in pink shorts we tortured in Australia. His torso’s grown about a foot since then, and his skating’s grown some serious balls. I’ve seen him put his neck on the line for his homies and Creature in these recent years and it makes us proud. Although he still geeks now and again, he’s got our respect and we got his back. —
Sam Hitz
Are you ready?
Let me fill my pockets with beer.
Where are you right now?
I’m at NHS going through Hesh Law footage. It comes out at the end  of October, I believe.
How long has it been since your last Thrasher interview?  What’s changed since then?
Two years, could be. No sponsor changes. A few more surgeries, a few more tattoos, I drink a bit more.
Have you learned any new moves?
Possibly. I forgot a whole bunch so I might have learned a couple.
Crooks pop-over Photo: Brook
What did you have on lock then that you’ve lost now?
Oh wait, did I ride for Duffs in the last interview?
There’s a sponsor change.
What trick did I do then?
You haven’t lost anything since then. After Phoenix Am ’07 you  got offers from a lot of shoe sponsors. Duffs wasn’t working out. What made you choose Vox?
I just knew most of the people on the team; some of the other riders were calling me saying they’d be hyped to have me on. I always try to choose my sponsors based on what feels like it’ll be a good place to stay for a bit, because I don’t like dealing with quitting and all that shit. I like to think I’ll work hard for my sponsors so they’ll stick with me in the long run, so they won’t kick me off if I get a gnarly injury or have to go to rehab for a few years.
You have a reputation for slamming hard.
I’ve always gotten hurt since I was born, I guess.
Do you even think about bailing, or do you just go for the make?
There are times when I know the first try is going to be a bail, but sometimes they don’t work out like that. I’ve never been able to figure out that technique where people can ollie out and barely touch the rail and jump off—like on kickflip maneuvers—and get out of it. It’s got to be, like, all. Especially now, when falling is such a pain in the ass. When ollieing up to something that’s way long, I’ll try and wait ’til I’m mentally prepared to land it first go.
Kickflip footplant.  Sequence: Rhino
Why don’t you like to scope spots before you skate them?
It’s never a fun time when you’re in the car driving out to something that you know is scary. You use up all your adrenaline in the car thinking about it. You’re trying to listen to gnarly music, your adrenaline is pumping on the ride over. But if you just show up having a good day of skating and you see something, your adrenaline starts pumping right then. I think every skater will agree that they enjoy coming across something rad and skating it, as opposed to seeking it out and having a trick in mind with people expecting shit of you.
You’d be surprised how often I hear, “Can we come back to this tomorrow?”  I don’t think I’ve heard that from you.
It comes out, but lots of times I’m more motivated right then. I can do this and just feel good about it right now—go back and drink with a good conscience knowing I don’t have shit to do the next day—instead of stressing on it all night and over-preparing.
If you don’t make a trick first time around, are you down to go back?
Oh yeah. I’ve been back to a trick in  San Francisco three or four times, full days of getting to the same point I’d been at the other days—getting too weak and tired as before—but it finally worked out in the end, so I don’t have to go there anymore.
What do you think of contests on big terrain like Bust or Bail or Wallenberg? Is it torture, or does it represent what professional level skateboarding is?
I really like them. I love watching them.  I don’t know how many more of them I can go to. My normal procedure of skating a rail isn’t going there with a shitload of people. I’m not the fastest. I’ll roll up to a trick for a while. And that doesn’t really happen at those contests—you just have to go.
Is that why at Bust or Bail you  jumped on the rail 15 minutes early?
That one was a little different. I can  jump on that rail and know I’ve got a 50-50. I hadn’t skated for a bit before that because I had gotten a tattoo on my leg, so it was my first day of skating in five days or so. I was pretty rested.
5-0. Photo: Hammeke
Would you train for an event like that?
Definitely. Protein shakes in the morning, burn every muscle, tear ’em up. Drink nothing but water the week before. Definitely all the stops. Red Bull is on my ass; I got to keep up on this contest level.
Why don’t you ride for a drink sponsor like Gatorade or Red Bull or Monster?
’Cause what if I got an offer from a beer sponsor? I couldn’t do it because that damn Gatorade contract says no other drink sponsors. I’d feel like a damn jackass, right?
You’ve been spending some time in SF. What brings you there?
I got a lady friend there. As a skater you’re obliged to be where the media is, otherwise you aren’t really doing your job, and California is media central. Southern California isn’t on my list of rad skating. It’s fun to party there, but it isn’t too productive for me. People just take me to big rails that have been blown out already. You have to drive all day. There’s so much stuff in SF that’s still un-skated somehow. There’s really good people to skate with. Go out with P-Stone for low-pressure filming. Driving around drinking beers and coming across good shit. Filming with P-Stone, skating with Guzman.
How does filming for Prevent this Tragedy compare to your everyday sessions?
It’s super-good, man. We just skate. But sometimes P-Stone makes you handle your own shit—take the bus to meet up with him. The other day he made me take the bus,  and by the time I got there the session was over. If he would’ve come to get me I could have skated.
Are you satisfied with your part?
The first half of the year, right after I turned pro, everything went to shit for me. Kept getting hurt every trip I went on. Saints and Sinners trip was the nail in the coffin for my shitty-ass six months. It got better after that. I’ve been getting a lot of stuff I’m stoked on. Hopefully we can get the rights to a song I’m stoked on.
Jack-knife big rig. Photo: Rhino
Is it going to be a good representation  of your skating? Some people think you’re just a handrail guy.
Yeah, it’s my skating for the last eight months, or however long. It’s got to be a good representation of my skating, whether it’s handrails or whatever.
Would you rather be on a fly-in, fly-out specific trick mission, or just get in the van and go wherever with the homies  for a month?
I’m always down to get in the van.  You can bring weed. No airplanes.
Are you the type of guy who’s more productive on a month-long, go-anywhere trip as opposed to the  specific mission?
The month-long trips are rough unless you’ve got someone in charge who understands the need for some days off. You’ve got to have some recoup days. Go to the lake. On some demo trips I’ve almost lost my mind, forgetting how to spell my name. We did a Vox trip with demos everyday and I was so burnt by the end that I was just in a daze.
Does Navs ever call and ask what you did that week? Does he let you do what you do, and trust that you’ll get it done? Does he try to control the trips you go on?
No, he keeps it super mellow.  A lot of the guys are filming for other videos as well. Not just for Hesh Law, but they’re all really good skaters. That’s why P-Stone is down at NHS right now, trying to sort out what footage goes to Prevent this Tragedy and what goes to Hesh Law. Devin and I both have parts in each.
It’s hard to come up these days, but you did it. Why did you make it while some others can’t?
Dude, I think I slipped in right before it started getting gnarly. I feel like I caught the last bit of really rad skateboarding. There really wasn’t the soccer mom getting raised  on skateboards when I started. Wait—what? —I just spaced what this question was about.
Nosegrab 360. Sequence: Brook
How did you make it while others can’t. Shit, every kid on YouTube can do everything in your video part, but legend has it if you spend a week with those kids you’ll see why they aren’t coming up. What’s your advice to them?
If he was killing it at the time maybe I’d try to hook him up, but I’ve only encountered one kid like that recently. The Norwegian Creature ambassador. He’s 13, ripping, living at this house in Norway with a bunch of 18-year-old dudes, learning the roots right.
Live with the older guys.
That’s always good ’cause  they’ll keep you in check and let  you know when you’re fucking up. My first trip was a Duffs trip and  I got handled really badly. I’d never been on any skate trip before, and had never even shot a photo with a photographer, besides a trick on El Toro. That’s a good one, shoot a trick on El Toro. Everyone’s set in their ways and I was trying to be a part of everything on the trip. The team manager pulled me aside and said I had to chill. Rakestraw pulled me aside and said, “All you got to do is get photos and don’t act stupid.” The Creature Australia trip got even more punishing. That still goes on, but it’s pretty necessary. I think  I caught on pretty fast.
Hitz likes to torture.
Sam has given me the least amount of torture of anyone  on Creature.
What’s the most expensive  thing you’ve ever bought?
Paying taxes. Serious, by far.  Three times the cost of my car.
Do you think you make enough money from skateboarding?
Yeah. If I took a different route I could make more, but that’s fucked.
50-50 around the corner. Photo: Zaslavsky
What about a guy like Jereme Rogers? He’s a couple years older than you. Do you see yourself in a few years owning a $300,000 car and retiring?
I don’t know. He’s doing what he wants, but I wouldn’t really trust the rapping thing. I don’t know if white people can rap. That one dude’s got it. Dirt Nasty is kind of pulling it with that “Gold Chains” song.
Do you have plans once skateboarding no longer pays the bills?
Drop in on a skyscraper. Call a bunch of photographers and put a piece of wood at the bottom for a little bank. Dropping in on a skyscraper would be really fun. Maybe find one with a slope to it so you could ride it more than 20-feet down. Maybe it would get me on the cover.
Where have you been in the past year? Anywhere you want to return to?
I was pretty hyped on Portugal. On that first leg of the Vox Euro Enduro we had really good guides, good spots—but that would soon change. Portugal was the only part of the trip where my body was functioning.
Anywhere you hope to never return to?
Germany. Stupid-ass trade shows. It sucked. Two Nazi experiences in a row. I never had a Nazi encounter before. After shooting the shit with some locals for a while they would lean in and ask, “Can I trust you guys?”
“Sure.” Next thing you know they’re spitting Nazi shit. “All right! See you later!” I thought it was pretty common knowledge that Hitler was wrong. They don’t even fucking know. They’re a bunch of cocksuckers. There are some cool Germans; I got to shout out to my man Lennie over there. You know Lennie.
Lennie Burmeister!
He’s the shit. He’s not a Nazi.
Natas pole dance. Sequence: Rhino
If Volcom called and said, “We want  you to go to Germany,” would you  go anyway?
It would probably be for a mini-ramp contest, so no.
Tell me about trashing the RV on the side of the road in Colorado.
I had no idea what I was getting into. I hang out with Danny Kass in Portland a lot. He likes to go skating with us. He called me, saying he’s taking Silent Mike, Devin, and our friend Willis on a cross-country trip for his show, Danny and the Dingo. He wanted me to go as well and offered to pay for everything. Next thing I know I’m in Los Angeles filling out release forms for Fuel TV. They kept feeding us beer, and soon our crew became known as the Shitbags. The RV started shooting flames out of it on the way up the mountains in Colorado. The headlights started flashing so the driver pulled it to the side of the road. Willis took over driving—and he was in no condition to be driving—but the filmers didn’t care.  They just kept filming the antics. Soon after getting back on the road the headlights shut off. We made it to a rest stop and got out and started trashing the RV. Broke out all the windows, smashed everything. I ripped out the bathroom door and threw it out the window. We were waiting on a taxi to take us the rest of the way to Denver when seven cop cars showed up. They passed over me, but when they got to Mike they took one look at him and gave him the Breathalyzer. We were all underage so they came back to me and I just admitted to drinking. I wasn’t going to pass the Breathalyzer. I got a shitty MIP ticked two months before turning 21. I had to pay a $250 fine, do 24-hours of community service, and take an eight-hour drug and alcohol class at 7:00 am that cost another 80 dollars. Damn Colorado.
Where do you go to chill? Issaquah  or SF?
Either or. If I haven’t been back home for  a while it’s always good. It’s way, way cheaper to kick it at home.
Anywhere else? When was the last time you took a personal vacation?
What would I do on a vacation? I’d do the same stuff. If I went on vacation I’d still want to skate.
SOTY, who do you think has got it  this year?
Shit, Phelps asked me that one yesterday and I didn’t have an answer. It’s not going to be the winner of Thrasher Skater of the Year—it’s going to be my Skater of the Year. I really don’t keep up to date enough to know what’s going on. I look at the mags but forget it all.
Blunt fakie. Photo: Brook
Download this photo as a wallpaper
Who isn’t on any of your sponsors—Creature, Volcom, or Vox—that you’re really stoked on?
Dude, there’s tons of them. Shit,  Chris Pfanner. I like skating with that guy.
He’s on Volcom. So are you.
Oh yeah.
Who’s one guy that you’ve never been  on a trip with but wish you could?
Jason Adams has been one of my favorites for a long time. I never met him while I was on Duffs. Never had a chance to go skate with him, but that guy is the shit.
What’s next?
Try to buy a house. It’s a good idea.  Get one in Portland. Sometimes in this line of work you feel like you’re not doing it. God damnit, I just get drunk every day. Smoke weed, sleep in, and once a week I do something gnarly on my skateboard. It would be nice to feel like I accomplished something like buying a house. I’ve never really lived anywhere other than at my parents’. I lived on the couch in the NG house while I was 16.
50-50 down the wire. Sequence: Rhino
Got any words of wisdom?
Don’t ever buy Zig-Zags. Get king-size  rice paper. All Americans should learn to roll  better joints.
That reminds me of your Tom Penny experience in Rotterdam.
Tom Penny. If Tom Penny asks for your weed to roll a mega joint, you’ve got to  do it. He was wasted trying to roll on a post.  Baby-arm size, six grams, plus eight grams  of hash and five cigs. He dumped it all on  the floor and everyone jumped down and  got a pinch—but I missed. It’s cool, though; Adam Dyet and Appleyard smoked me out later. I would have liked to smoke a big joint with Penny, but I guess it’s just as good to have what he spilled.

---

Posted: September 28th, 2009
Malice In Skateboardland
"I never want a job at all, ever."
Interview by Michael Burnett
When I first met James Brockman
, he was the kid in the van who never spoke. He ripped, of course, which brought sponsors, video parts, and what passes for fame in the weird world of non-televised skateboarding, but his personality remained largely a mystery. Like many wallflowers before him, James’ debut into social society came at the business end of a Natural Ice twelver and, with almost David Lee Roth-ian intensity, he quickly became not just a partier, but a real loose cannon. The road since has been rocky, though not without success. James continues to shred, punctuated by occasional descents into temporary madness. And though his shyness resurfaced once the tape recorder came out for this interview, by the time we got to the car he was already recounting another wild, drunken escapade, detailed in his high-pitched, sing-songy drawl. Funny, obnoxious, and mad as a hatter, James Brockman is hell-bent for destruction.
What was the first tattoo you got and why?
This Zero one on my forearm, because my friend offered to buy it. I’d just turned pro and I liked that logo, so I just got it.
Did you consider going the chicken route and getting it on your ankle?
No way. Fuck that. I hate leg tattoos and back tattoos. This was the logo on that Exorcist deck I had.
So after that, did you just go wild with tattoos?
I’m not really sure. I just started getting ’em. After you get one it gets way easier to get more.
What does it say on your fingers?
It says “Hell Bent.”
What does that mean?
It’s pretty self-explanatory.
What is the use of a book without pictures or conversations? Not a goddamn thing. James Brockman delivers plenty of both. The overcrooks starts it off. Photo: Shigeo
Do you think if you’d died on one of the tricks in your interview you would have gone  straight to hell?
I don’t even believe in hell. Plus, I got those and  the one behind my ear when I was completely blacked out. And this one. And this one.
Doesn’t that go against the tattoo artists’ code, to tattoo someone who’s blacked out?
Maybe so. We have friends who do them so we  can pretty much do whatever. I couldn’t tell you why I got it.
Didn’t you crash your car at 11 am blacked out?
How did you know that?
You told me.
Oh yeah. I fell asleep at the wheel. I was dropping my buddy Tosh off. I offered to take him home  ’cause nobody wanted to drive him home.
What did you crash into?
Another car. But it wasn’t like I even crashed; I just bumped them. It was a stoplight and I fell asleep at the light right before it went green.
Did the cops think it was a crash?
Yeah. I pulled over and the lady didn’t even give a shit but the cops just grabbed me from behind and slammed me into my car. Then  I went to the drunk tank.
How many DUIs do you have? Three?
One. Canada says I have two, but I only have one. I can’t get into Canada anymore.
Rule 42: All persons doing nollie noseslides more than 11 steps down must leave the court immediately. Sequence: Camarillo
Have you learned your lesson?
Yeah. I haven’t driven since.
Because you have no license?
Pretty much.
You gotta stop doing that shit.
It was just one time out of three years.  I learned my lesson.
Did you ride for Germ?
No. That was Tommy.
What was your first sponsor?
Avalanche, a skateshop in El Cajon. I got some boards from Maple ’cause my friend Adam Louder rode for them. I got some Shorty’s boards once, too, ’cause I went skating with Kevin Davis and Muska and shit.
What was it like to live in the heart of Osiris country when
The Storm
video hit?
I hated them then. It was too much for me.  It was everywhere. Adam Louder and Dobstaff rode for them, so later I got on flow.
Why did you leave Osiris recently?
I didn’t leave. I got left.
Was it because you committed a  hate crime?
I’ve done a lot of things.
Was one of those things a hate crime?
I guess so. So I’ve heard. I was blacked  out again.
Curiosity often leads to trouble and tre-flip lips. We're all mad here. Sequence: Bush
When are you going to stop that shit?
I’m trying to.
Do you and Shuriken still have beef?
Yeah. I’m pretty sure he still hates me.  I can’t apologize for that.
If he showed up here at the restaurant, would it be on?
I wouldn’t want to fight him. I like Shuriken and I respect him. I just opened my big mouth when I was blacked-out drunk. And right after, a dude socked me up while I was sleeping. I can’t explain it ’cause I don’t really remember what happened.
Do you make a conscious decision to go on a bender, or does it sneak up on you?
It’s a decision.
How many days can you go?
I can’t count. I’ve gone for more than three days before. When I was younger. Pretty much felt like a zombie.
Are you gonna have to quit cold turkey some day?
I don’t even think that far ahead.
Ambition, distraction, uglification, derision, and a backside 180 rotation rendition. Photo: Rhino
How’d you learn switch 50-50s so good?
I learned them at Santee park, obviously. That was the place everyone skated—Dobstaff, Louder, Kevin Davis.
Who was your East County fave?
Adam Louder. He lives in Arizona now  and is married.
Will you ever get married?
Me? Fuckin’ no. Don’t believe in it.
Have you ever had a steady lady friend?
Once. It was stupid.
What happened to your front tooth?
It got knocked out. By the ground. I tried to kickflip front board this rail at Redondo High and slipped out, and then Schloshbach put the footage on Real TV. I’m sure everyone’s seen it, which sucks.
Has anyone ever recognized you  from that?
When I was in high school kids recognized me from that. I hated it.
How much did your gold tooth cost?
It was the same amount as a white one.
Is it a display of your wealth?
No, it’s a drunken decision my friend and  I came up with after I got jumped and got the first one knocked out again.
After this triple-triple heel James should think nothing of falling down stairs. Photo: Burnett
How come you didn’t get on  Toy Machine?
It just never went anywhere.
I think it was because you never talked and they thought you were weird.
Is that why?
Are you pretty shy?
I used to be shy. A lot of partying  changed that.
Has partying helped?
It hasn’t helped, but it’s changed  my lifestyle.
You told me you’ve never met a girl when you weren’t drunk.
Yeah. The last four girls I hooked up with I fell asleep on. True story.
Sounds like the best date ever.  Who’s your favorite Pissdrunk?
Dustin Dollin. That dude’s awesome.
How’s the new Zero video,  Strange World, coming?
Couldn’t tell you. I’ve been trying  to go for it.
Were your parents supportive of you when you started skateboarding?
I guess. They weren’t really around.
Where were they?
I’d rather not talk about it.
Since one good turn deserves another, James adds a kick to his spin. Bigflip. Sequence: Camarillo
Sorry. What are your top three  bands of all time?
I’d say my top one is Iron Maiden.  Second, Judas Priest. Fuck yeah.  Rob Halford is awesome!
Were you dismayed when you found  out Halford batted for the same team?
I don’t give a fuck. Priest rules.
What’s the best Priest album?
I really like Painkiller.
If you could live in any cartoon, which would it be?
Alice in Wonderland, fool! Duh.
Are you the Mad Hatter?
It sure fuckin’ feels like it. I’ve loved that cartoon since the first time I saw it. It’s a lot of nonsense. It just brings joy when I watch it. That and The Exorcist. I watched that three times in two days. I love that movie.
What do you and Jamie Thomas talk about when it’s just the two of you?
I don’t think I’ve ever really talked to him except when I was getting in trouble for being an asshole, being a piece of shit.
Who’s your favorite skater on Zero  right now?
Baby Jamie. Jamie Tancowny. That guy rips.
Smoking the monster out of a hurricane. Photos: Bush
Why’d you start skating?
My dad’s girlfriend’s nephew skated and  we started hanging out, so I started skating with him.
What was your first trick?
The first flip trick I ever did was a kickflip, but it was a kickflip sex change, that’s just how it worked out. That’s just how it happened. My friend was like, “What the hell did you just do?” I think that was the first.
I know you really love movies.  What are your faves?
I like way too many movies for that. There’s seriously so many. I’ll say one, The Stoned Age.
Is that the one with Brendan Fraser in it?
What? Fuck no!
Oh yeah. That’s Encino Man.
You’re about to cross the line! Ughh! I’ll just go off the last three movies I’ve watched: Stoned Age, Drop Dead Fred, and Lost Boys. They’re all excellent.
D
o you have any pet peeves?
I don’t like people touching me or getting close to me. That’s probably the worst thing ever. When they touch my face, it drives me nuts. Please don’t touch me.
So is it hard to be around Jimmy Carlin?
Sometimes.
Would you rather high five, shake hands, or give the knucks?
I hate giving the knucks. High five, for sure. The knucks are 100-percent embarrassing.
Are you mad that you’re going bald?
No, I’m just gonna run with it.
But you cut your long locks.
I didn’t do that on purpose. I asked for a trim and I got this. I was like, “Just do something,” and she pretty much buzzed the fuck out of me.
Up above the world he flies, like a tea tray in the sky. Backside 360 ollie. Sequence: Burnett
Do you think you look like the Metallica guys right before they made that first shitty album?
I don’t know. I hope not.
Are you gonna grow it out again?
We’ll see what happens. I’m gonna see how it runs.
Have you thought about Rogaine?
No, but you know what’s funny? My dad bought me a whole four-pack of Rogaine foam shit for my birthday! I was like, “What the fuck is this? Get outta here!” Nice birthday gift.
Is your dad bald?
No, but every dude on my mom’s side of the family is. Shitty bald genes!
Where does your money go?
I spend it on my friends. I don’t buy extravagant things; I just have fun with  my friends.
Do your friends still skate?
Used to. My friend Mike and Chris Larue  still skate. Adam still skates, sort of.
Do your brothers skate?
Yeah. They mostly like to get stoned a lot.
Are you into weed?
Fuck no. It makes me sleepy. I think every one of my roommates loves that stuff.  I always want to be doing something.  It pisses me off because it just makes me  want to go to bed.
What are your thoughts on  Jereme Rogers’ retirement?
I don’t give a fuck. That guy’s  a fuckin’ douche.
How do you think his rap career will go?
Are you fucking kidding me?
It’s a poor sort of memory that only works backward, so James launches this heelflip frontward. Photo: Shigeo
Do you like any rap music?
Yeah. I like a couple of songs from  Brotha Lynch Hung, Andre Nikatina, and Ludacris. I like that Brotha Lynch Hung song, “The Baby Killer.”
The one Cardiel skated to?
Now I’m gonna look like an idiot ’cause  I didn’t know Cardiel skated to that.
It was in an Anti-Hero video.
That song’s awesome.
Are you skating exactly like you want to right now? Is it work or fun?
I only try stuff ’cause I want to do it. I’ve been lectured so many times for not doing shit that it feels good to be actually skating. For so long I felt like I forgot what I wanted to do, and I’ve actually been having the best time of my life these last few months just trying shit and  doing what I want.
Are you back on track?
No, but I’m enjoying trying stuff and pushing myself again. We’ll see how it goes.
This economy is in a tailspin.
Don’t give a shit.
What would you do if you had to get a job?
Not gonna happen. I wouldn’t do anything.  I never want a job at all, ever.
But what if you had to?
You don’t have to.
So would you take on a hobo life?
Fuckin’ A.
Ride the rails? Crap in your pants?
If I have to. All I know is I’m not getting a job. I don’t even want to think about it.

---

Posted: November 3rd, 2009
"I’m more selective with my stunt work."
Interview & photos by Michael Burnett
What’s been on your mind lately?
I’m always thinking of ways to live leisurely. Ways to, you know, get rich.
Yeah, ’cause lately every time we’re hanging out you’re always talking  about schemes so you’ll never have  to work again.
Exactly. I don’t ever want to have to work. After skateboarding I don’t think I could work.
Are you worried that you’re not cut out for the world of employment?
Yeah. I’m just scared that I’m going to have to work, and I don’t want to. And I like nice stuff—cars and houses. I like the leisurely lifestyle, so my mind’s brewing on a lot of ideas. Sometimes they work out.
What are some of your winning ideas?
I had some money in United States currency and I waited until the Canadian currency was worth the most. When it was $1.00 to $1.40 Canadian I traded a couple hundred grand and made about $70,000 in the exchange.
This is very different from the young man dreaming about crooked grinds from a few years ago.
Yeah, well, you know, as time goes by you realize that it would be nice to be rich.
In fact, the last time we did an interview you spoke specifically about how you had gotten rid of your luxury car. You said, at that time, that luxury cars were stupid. What made you change your mind? I know these days you have two luxury cars and have even purchased some men’s jewelry. What changed?
I think I just woke up to it. I was like, “Shit!  I like nice shit!” The luxury cars are way better than the other ones.
Is it true that you had the BMW X5, but that you bought an additional Mercedes because you thought the X5 was too big to go get coffee with?
That’s true. Too much gas. Too heavy.  I needed a little street cruiser. A little Benz. I keep it German with the automobiles. Germans make the best cars, man.
You realize how ridiculous this sounds?
Yeah.
Kickflip grasser
What about this jewelry?  This is the weirdest part to me.
I bought two Rolexes. I spent $18,000  on two Rolexes.
Do they help you be on time better?
Nope.
Do you wear them skating?
Nope. I want to keep those forever.  I rewarded myself.
Not that you’re a slob, but I don’t think I’ve ever seen you dressed up super fancy. So do you just wear your usual skate gear and then your luxury men’s jewelry?
Pretty much. You know, I can put some nice pants on every once in a while.
Slacks?
Some high-end Volcom pants, yeah. I just rock my normal gear with the Rolex.
What’s the most expensive thing  you’ve lost?
Oh man, the Hasselblad X-Pan. That X-Pan was about $2,000. I lost that. Spaced it. Left it at a backyard bowl. Went back the next day, it was gone.
So you say you bought the fancy jewelry to reward yourself. What did you do to deserve a reward?
Just livin.’ Just ’cause I’m doin’ the thing.
Just treating yourself?
Yeah, man.
Switch 180 manual
Well, if you don’t, who will?
Exactly! If you don’t treat yourself, who will?
I know that the rest of the Flip team is killing themselves to finish this video; however, I heard a rumor that you finished your part years ago.
Yes I did. The bulk of it I finished in 2004, right after the SOTY, when I was really on fire.
You’re like the kid that finishes his homework before class is even over.
Yeah, get ’er done. Finish it on up.
So this hasn’t been a big push for you these last few months.
Not really. I don’t really work well under pressure. I try, but as far as going out and kickflip boardsliding down El Toro, that’s not really my style. I don’t really want to risk anything or get hurt ’cause I like to skate a lot. I want to be able to skate on a daily basis and not do anything that’s too stressful.
So have you lost your killer instinct?
I don’t think I’ve lost it. It’s on a little hiatus. It’s chillin’ right now, but it comes out every once in a while.
Remember the Thrasher cover where  you did that Smith grind in Daly City? You took it to the nuts five times but  still made it.
Ah yeah.
Nollie Cab
So no more of that?
No, but it’s different when you’re new to the scene, comin’ up.
What was it like when you were 17 and everyone was coming at you? Did you feel like you needed to impress every time you went skating?
Yeah. And I was hungry. I was really hungry. I had all those dreams—making it out to California, being a pro and, shit, why not go for the SOTY, give it my best and shit? Then you get there. You’re stoked. But then you’ve got to enjoy it.
So what’s your approach now to getting  a wicked move on camera?
The ideal conditions are that I usually feel more comfortable if I drive. I’ve got all my stuff with me. I usually feel more comfortable if my bros are with me. But, if not, we can still make it happen. I mean, I’ve done a lot of tré flips down stuff. I’ve done a lot of the stuff I think I can do. Now I’ll wait until something sparks me and I get an idea rather than jump on every session. I’m more selective with my stunt work.
You sparked a revolution with this nollie bigspin bullshit.
Mmmm-hmm. That’s some bullshit.
How’d you come up with this nollie bigspin attack?
The first time I saw someone do it was at this park in Ontario, Canada. My friend was doing these big old nollie bigspins. I thought, “What?” That was the new shit. No one had ever really seen it before. And it was easy, super easy! Just hit the nose and that thing floats right around. Then from there, just throw it to tail or whatever. I did it all around the world. Then people just started to do ’em, I think.
Off bumps, down stairs.
It became a hot move, maybe. I definitely need to chill out on that. There are some new variations of it coming up in the Flip video. I’ve still got one variation I want to do before  I put it to rest. That nollie heel spinner
Kickflip fakie
The nollie bigspin heelflip backside 360?
That’s the one.
We tried to get that for this little feature.
It was too hot! There was no shade over  that ramp.
So you really enjoy a good halfpipe session?
Yeah. It’s just so easy on the body and you can have so much fun with it. You can go fast. You’re grinding, you’re ollieing, you’re sliding out on soft flatbottom.
Do you think dudes that never skate that stuff are missing out?
They’re missing the boat. I don’t know what they’re doing. You’ve got to get on that ramp.
What’s the least fun thing to skate?
Handrails. They freak me out, man. They’re really scary, those handrails. And big gaps. I’m not really down for a giant gap.
Were you sad to see Arto go?
Yeah. I was sad to see Arto go.
Did you try to talk him out of it?
Kind of.
What did you say?
I was like, “Oh, man. You sure?” But he had made up his mind and I can’t get in the way of a friend. He was coming at me on a real level. He’s a friend, too, and a teammate at the same time. I gave him my opinion. I was like, “You’re the man over here. You’re kind of like the legend of the team, so why don’t you hang out?” but he was over it. He was over it.
Fakie flip crooks
I know you have a lot of exciting new riders on Flip.
Yeah. They’re all young.
Obviously you like them all, but who is your favorite?
Louie Lopez is probably my favorite of the new crew. He’s got that spirit of a good skater. Beyond amazing skateboard talent, he’s just a good dude, down to earth. He knows how to hang out and it’s nice to see people come up who are really cool and seem like they really deserve it.
Why are you still in Southern California if you dislike it so much?
Fifty percent of the time I could be somewhere else. But then when you’re away for a while you start to miss it ’cause that’s where all the action is. That’s the place where you can make it happen easier because you’re surrounded by skateboarding and skateboard photographers and filmers and the industry. It can make you sick sometimes, so you have to spend some time away from it.
Whose phone call are you most likely to dodge?
If I know it’s someone who wants me to do something that I’m not into. That’s a potential dodge.
I
s it hard to please your sponsors?
Sometimes it is. Sometimes the pressure gets to you, but that’s what happens when you get to that point. I deal with it. Sometimes it’s hard to go out and get a picture under the gun, especially if they want it to be as good as the best thing you did in the past. That’s difficult, ’cause the level in skateboarding keeps going up.
The Pat Duffy syndrome.
Yeah, yeah.
Whose skate career do you really admire?
Stevie Williams. He’s done some really good stuff. Danny Way’s definitely had a really strong career. A lot of people. Geoff Rowley.
Nollie varial heel
Do you see yourself going in a Caballero trajectory? Will we be able to buy an Appleyard item of product in 15 years?
I sure hope so. Appleyard the jean. Appleyard the Volcom pant.  You know, just keep the name on the product and keep it out there for purchase.
Is the Internet ruining everything?
It seems like people just want to see you on The Berrics rather than watch your next part in a video. You don’t have to worry about that stuff too much, though; it’s just overload. I can’t say anything bad about it, that’s just the way things are going. The Internet’s like the new TV. If you can advertise and market on it, go for it.
What’s some weird shit you got yourself into in the early days before you knew what the heck was going on?
I’d been on some weird freakin’ tours when I was just too green and too naive to know what was happening. I did a tour with Birdhouse probably in ’99; we drove across the States with Heath, Reynolds,  J Strickland, and Lenoce. I think we did the whole thing in a Lincoln Towncar. I can barely even remember it. The End had just come out, so Heath was driving the car into trees and over trees. It was when driving into everything was popular. I’ve been to some weird Zumiez parties in Colorado where some wild and weird stuff went on. I went to Vegas with Muska, and Danny Minnick and Sean Sheffey were there. We took the Chadillac Muskalade out there. This was when I was hanging out with the Muska. We were skating a little bit, but not much. It was more so they could party in Vegas. I was asking Minnick—I guess I was asking him too many questions ’cause he just snapped on me. I guess he’d lost a lot of money and didn’t want to talk about it. I was 17 and new to everything. I was all, “How much did you lose? How much did you bet?” He snapped on me. “I lost my ass in there! I don’t want to talk to you about it!” I don’t know how  I got involved in that trip. I was just along for the ride.
What trick are you most pleased with in the video?
Maybe the tré flip noseslide I did down Wilshire—five years ago.

---

Posted: November 5th, 2009
"Wake up, meet up with people, figure out where to skate"
Interview by Joe Hammeke
A GOOD TOUR GUIDE
for a city is hard to come by. Sure, there’s always a guy who knows where the spots are, but you always run the risk of the guy being a bit on the—dare I say—kooky side. Either he wants to hold out on some spots or he thinks that it’s his time to show the visiting pros what’s up. Robbie Brockel is neither of those. These photos show that he can rip the spots he takes visitors to, but ask anyone who he’s shown around and they won’t feel like he’s trying to steal the show. He’s just going to skate along with them. He’s not going to hold up the crew that’s in town for a day at a spot that he can skate at any time. On top of all that, he’s pretty mature for his age. A great guy to take on the road. Always down to drive a shift in the car and not run it off the road. Down to kick it at the party, sleep on the couch, but he never wears out his welcome. He’s my go-to tour guide when people come to town, and if there’s a spot in the car for a road trip, he’s the first guy I call. —
Joe Hammeke
Ollie
How old, and where are you from?
I’m 19, from Phoenix, Arizona.
What’s an average day like?
Wake up, meet up with people, figure out where to skate, end up at a skatepark at night.
Which park do you usually end up at?
Union Hills skatepark in Glendale, by my house.
Who do you usually meet up with to skate?
Phil, Andrew, and Dave Haefer.
Tailslide shove-it
When did you graduate high school?
2008.
Are you back in school now?
Yep, but just taking some regular classes.
You took a year off?
Yeah. I just traveled and skated. Went to Minnesota, Denver, Albuquerque, San Francisco, and Oregon.
Frontside grind
Why didn’t you skate the Bust or Bail contest?
I was about to and then Moose started trying the 360—which was what I was going to try.
How close have you come to a back three down the Tucson Courthouse?
Pretty much as close as you can come without rolling away.
How many times have you tried?
Been there two times; not sure how many tries.
How many have you landed on?
Over 20, but I just can’t get it to roll away.
Backside lipslide
How did you get into the bars for Angel Ramirez’ 21st birthday blowout?
I got a fake ID that says I’m 36.
How does someone get away with an ID that says they’re twice as old as they really are?
I have no idea. Except it kinda looks like me. It was issued nine years ago, but it doesn’t expire until 2038.
How do you know where all the AZ spots are?
Just years of skating around the city. Friends find them and let me know about them.
Is there ever a spot that you can’t locate?
No, ’cause I got reliable sources. I can always find them somehow.
Do you have a day job?
I work at Cowtown. Just a couple days a week.
Wallride, grab-in
I hear your brother is quite the football player.
He plays for Boise State, the Broncos. He’s the number-one ranked fullback in the nation.
Is he looking at a pro career after college?
A couple teams have been talking with him.
Who sponsors you?
Real, Spitfire, Thunder, Circa Combat, and Cowtown.
How’d you get hooked up?
PHX Am 2006—I won best trick skating a Real board. Jim hit up Laura from Cowtown and they started sending me boards.
What’s the Brockel flip?
I think that’s what some people call it. I guess it’s what I did at PHX Am 2008 best trick. It’s a bigflip with an extra turn—a bigflip 360? I’ve even heard it called a Gazelle Flip.
What’s the future hold for Brockel?
Lots more skating and traveling.
Anyone you want to thank?
Friends, family, everyone at Cowtown, John and Darin at Deluxe, and Andrew and Mario at Circa.

---

Posted: September 2nd, 2009
"I don’t want to be on a team with a bunch of dudes who I don’t feel comfortable with again."
Interview by Halba | Photos by Zaslavsky
With some folks
, skating translates differently. On video, they may be the second coming of Jesus, then they just blow in person. Others may never get the credit they deserve from video, but they make you feel bad about yourself when you see them skate in the flesh. Caswell is the latter of the two, and just about to wreck you with a spin of the first. With the Tiltmode Army’s Bonus Round just over the horizon, Caswell’s ability to crush whatever may lie in his path is apparent. His carefree attitude just sweetens the deal. Thrusting in deep after a bout with the unforeseen ailment of vertigo may demand your respect. Ladies and bitches, Mr. Caswell Berry.
Did you skate at Manny Mania?
Who, me? Shit, I ain’t Marc Johnson. I ain’t pulling shit.
That’s untrue. I’ve seen you pull all sorts of fucked up shit out of your ass. By the way, what’s your porn name?
I always had to make something up for my porn name because I don’t have a middle name, so I just jacked the name of my first pet. So…it’s Spike Curtner.
Inner-ear equilibrium or not, Caswell is a trick-getter for sure. Frontside nosegrind
That is wicked. You’re definitely pounding ass with a name like that. Over time, you’ve had a couple sponsors: Powell, Toy Machine, and finally Enjoi. Do you feel at home now, like you don’t care to ride for anyone else?
Pretty much. If all the dudes were to up and quit and go somewhere else… All the team riders would be like, “Wherever Matt goes, we’re going to go too.” I don’t want to be on a team with a bunch of dudes who I don’t feel comfortable with again.
Spinning a Cab gives even the best of 'em a touch of vertigo
When you rode for Powell or Toy Machine, was it a situation where you thought, “I’m just doing this for now,” or was it more like, “This is my ultimate goal”?
Not really. When I rode for Powell it was free boards, I was going on trips, we were out at contests and having a blast. When I got on Toy Machine I knew Enjoi was out, and I was completely happy with Toy Machine except for the fact that it was just me, Ed, and Austin Stephens. Then it started building and more dudes got on the team—which was good for them, but I wasn’t comfortable on there then. I always wanted to be on Enjoi.
With Matt Eversole at the helm on Enjoi, has it helped you cultivate a certain work ethic that you may not have had before?
Yeah, but it’s one of those things where you feel like it’s your dad coming down on you. But, you know in the back of your mind that he’s doing it because he cares.
Do you feel like he’s helped you become more proactive in your career?
For sure. It’s good, we need some sort of responsibility. I feel like it will also help us along the lines of dealing with the other companies we ride for.
This spot required a creative line and Caswell found it. Frontside lipslide transfer into bank
Do you ever feel the burn? Like, “I know I need to get something, but I don’t even want to skate.”
If it was just a photographer, a filmer, and me, I might feel that way. I try to make it less stressful and more fun with the homies. I just try to go out with my friends and leave it up to a bunch of different possibilities.
You’ve always come across to me as a skater’s skater—you’re always down to skate anything, and always super encouraging of the homies. Skating just seems to get you hyped. Speak on it.
I think that’s the way it should be. Why exclude yourself from skating one specific thing? If something is hard, I just look at it like a challenge. Shit that I can’t fathom or figure out, or if I couldn’t figure out a line at a park, it just motivates me.
Do you have a Kryptonite trick?
I wish I could do switch 360 flips. That trick is awesome. I can’t do that shit though.
You thought this well-worn San Jose ledge was ABD-ed to death? Smith kickflip
Let’s talk about vertigo.
What I have is Acute Neuronitis, which is related to vertigo. Vertigo’s the feeling of your environment moving around you. Like spinning. You know when you’re laying in bed after a night of partying and all you want to do is pass out, but you got the spins? It’s like that, but you don’t need to drink copious amounts of alcohol. It’ll make you feel sick and you’ll probably start barfing. The vestibular nerve in my inner ear or brain was attacked by a virus. It wasn’t able to work itself out of my body in a normal way; at least that’s what the inner ear specialist told me.
How’d you get rid of it?
I’m still not completely rid of it. There’s no medicine for it. I had to do a series of exercises while standing on a foam pad, with my feet in different positions with my eyes closed, and turn my head in every direction. I’d have to bend over and pick up objects off the ground and then stand up completely, 30 times or so. I’d also have to follow an object with my eyes and head in every direction. The exercises were to re-train my brain to pick up the slack of the damaged nerve. I’m still dealing with it. Some days are good and some are bad. When I say bad, I mean dizzy and off balance.
Will it ever go away completely?
It can last forever. Since I’m young I’m supposed to get better sooner than most.
Most people that get it are elderly. I think I’ll be bothered by it in times of sickness or when I’m stressed. I guess one day I should wake up and it’ll have vanished. If that’s the case I wish that day was tomorrow, but you can’t always get what you want.
Backside grab wall crawl facilitated by the asphalt gods
You’re about to have your third video part in three years. Are you satisfied?
I try not to think about it, but I remember how I felt when Man Down came out. That made me feel so good. The satisfaction of that was better than getting a trophy. It’s going to be just as good, if not better. I like where I’m at. Back then I was happy too, but I feel like this one’s something that’s going to be a permanent mark. Something I can look back on and think about that time, then pop in the DVD and just smile instantly.
What will the new Tiltmode video capture that other videos don’t?
It’s not just about going out with a filmer and stressing. You’re there with your friends skating anyways, you know? It’s the whole experience. They get a trick and it may get used, you get a trick that may get used. Not to say those other videos that are coming out around the same time won’t be sick, but no one was behind it forcing the issue; there wasn’t that kind of stress or pressure.
When Jose Rojo smells his upper lip, what do you think it smells like?
Like Menudo or something. I see him do it all the time.

---

Posted: November 1st, 2009
"I hope it makes them feel like they're different from everybody else out there by being a skateboarder."
Words & Photos by Michael Burnett
How does it feel to be on a video deadline after this many times around?
It actually feels pretty good that we’ve gotten this far. We’ve been lucky to make three videos. It’s the third in the Sorry trilogy. It’s really a testament to the riders and everybody’s dedication.
How do you look at it as a company owner versus as a pro skater?
It’s a very similar driving force. Everybody in the company wants to make the best stuff. With the riders, they’re their own worst critics, so they just want to outdo themselves from the last video. That’s a healthy progression. That’s normal. I don’t think it differs for me. For the last videos we’ve done, it’s always been a “Let’s do this!” attitude, and this is the latest one.
Obviously the team has been through some incredible hardships on the road to this video. What’s kept you going this whole time?
The video’s dedicated to Shane Cross and we’ve finished this video for Shane. Everything that’s in this video is for him.
Will Ali have a part?
Ali Boulala will have a full part.
What’s his future on the team?
That’s up to Ali. He’s still in jail, but hopefully he’ll be getting out soon. What Ali wants in his life is the most important thing. We have been through some gnarly shit with this video, and that’s the reason why it’s taken so long. Right in the middle of filming we lost Shane and had Ali in a coma for seven weeks, and that shook everybody at a time when it could have been anybody doing that stuff. And it was Shane, the guy none of us wanted it to be. The scenario that none of us wanted to happen happened right before or eyes. I’d like to see anybody else get through that untarnished. So, you know, the video is dedicated  to Shane. It’s his first and last full video part, and  Ali Boulala will have a part in the video. We support Ali and we hope he’s doing well.
Also, while making this video you had a big team shift by taking on a bunch of the Firm skaters. Flip probably has the most diverse team with the greatest cross section of styles and generations of skating. How did you make those elements all work while putting a video together? How did you mix cutting-edge street skating with classic pool riding with someone parachuting into the Grand Canyon? How do you put all that together?
I think everyone who’s on the team wants to ride for a company like that. I don’t think anyone wants to ride for a team that’s just about one guy. It’s about everybody and everybody’s different place within that brand, and it’s the company we’ve always strived to have. I think the guys we have now, I think they’re rad! I’m super stoked. I don’t think there’s been a video in a long time that’s had different styles of skateboarding, or this many generations of skating. We’ll see what that’s going to look like. The video premiere’s in two weeks, so the video’s still not quite finished.
Noseblunt slide revert
Is this the future of the business of skateboarding? Was there a grand vision  with the current team?
At Flip we respect the older generations of skateboarding as well as the kids that are pushing the future of skateboarding. With the team that we’ve got now, it’s exciting. It could possibly change the way that people look at skateboard teams. Hopefully it will show people what the company is really about, you know? A company that we’ve tried to build for a really long time is respecting everything that came before us and looking forward to the future. So we have a team that reflects that future.
I know you like to surround yourself with maniacs when you’re out skating. Do you want to give a shout out to all the maniacs  in your life?
I don’t know who you’re talking about, but I’m guessing I get along with this type of person because I like people who really want to live their life properly. They’re not afraid to drop something monotonous and do something they might never forget.
Is Jimmy Boyce the Pete Best of the Flip team?
Who’s Pete Best?
The forgotten Beatle.
No, no. Jimmy’s like a satellite nomad, roaming the country, waving the banner. I have a hell of a lot in common with those types. I like their style and I admire their outlook on life. They’re all amazing skateboarders and they’re not afraid to stop, either.
What’s going on with the music in this video?
I wanted it to sound like all the music could stand alone. You could separate it from the video and it could stand up on its own. It would span the breadth of all kinds of different musicians and have them all come together to be on the same kind of album, so the whole thing sounded as if it was made in one piece—which it was.
Were you influenced at all by the soundtracks of the old Powell videos?
No, not really. I think some of the timeless music from the old Powell videos, the Rubber Boys and that, is definitely music you never forget from when you were a kid. You never heard it anywhere else, so you related it directly back to skateboarding. Hopefully, we can make more modern types of music that kids could go and buy, as well as be stoked that it was made specifically for a skater, for a skateboard video. There’s not really anything like that, so why the hell not try it? There’s nothing wrong with trying to make something new for a particular genre and that also might fit into skateboarding. That would be rad for everyone. That would be cool.
I’m going to say a name and you say  the first thing that comes into your mind.  Lance Mountain.
Pools.
Bob Burnquist.
Mega-Ramp.
Rodrigo TX.
Mad pop.
Mark Appleyard.
Mad style.
Luan Oliveira.
Mad wizardry.
Louie Lopez.
Mad gangsta. Ben Nordberg. Mad English. Rune Glifberg. Mad Viking. Ali Boulala. Court Jester. Shane Cross. Rest in peace.
Any message you want to give the kids who take the time to watch the video?
I’d like to thank them all for spending the time doing that. We put a lot of our skateboarding and life into these videos and I hope the kids appreciate it, but even more than that, I hope they really get a lot out of it. I hope it makes them want to skateboard. I hope it makes them feel good about skateboarding and  I hope it makes them feel like they’re different from everybody else out there by being a skateboarder.

---

Posted: November 1st, 2009
Bob Burnquist Interview
"I’ll sleep when I’m dead. But right now I skate."
Interview by Jake Phelps | Photos by Michael Burnett
Why does everybody say that you use magnets?
I love that, man. It’s called relative wind. Which means that even if there’s no wind outside, at whatever speed you’re flying though the air, there’s a relative wind pushing against you. Especially with the Mega. It seems impossible to ollie something that big, but the relative wind keeps the board pushed to your feet. That’s why I do switch backside ollies. If I did a switch frontside ollie, it wouldn’t work—the relative wind would blow the board away.
I noticed that’s your money gun.
That’s my trick to get over the gap to be able to try something on the quarter. I know that if I do a switch backside ollie, I’ll get to the quarterpipe. I can try some other trick, but it’s a roll of the dice. The backside ollie’s just to get there and get scared. The first year I did X-Games, they had these little GPS devices attached to our boards so they could measure how high we went. And I remember seeing some blog where they showed a close up of the things attached to the board, like, “Look! He wears magnets!”
I’ve seen goons do the magnets.
Yeah, I don’t do that. The velcro, the magnets—there was some guy who showed up at the Ultra skatepark back in the day with velcro. At first he didn’t tell anyone. He was doing Caballerials and we were like, “What? This guy’s gnarly!” And then at the end of the session he detached his board from his feet. You wanna have fun? OK, but you can’t do that in the real world. You’ll blow your career real quick. I would never do that to skateboarding, Jake. No magnets.
How does a skate rat like you come from the middle of nowhere in Brazil, and end up at the Staples Center?
It’s been a wild, winding road, but I’ve been blessed. I’ve had a lot of good fortune, and  I have great family and great people around me. When I go into the Staples Center and  I see that ramp in that venue with that  amount of people, it’s like “OK, this is a  whole different reality.” I just go there and do my thing and stoke people out, and then come home and do it the way I want to. That’s the reason I built all this at my house, to be able to learn new tricks and be in my own little zone without all the people. It’s cool to be out there, but sometimes it’s kinda like a job and the pressure’s a little bit too much. But I’d rather do that than a 9-to-5, flipping burgers or whatever. I’d rather skate.
Switch back tail
Bob, you weren’t born for  flipping burgers.
We’re flippin’ boards, not flippin’ burgers.
You were a great vert skater even back in the ’90s, but vert contests now are different. You can’t just rip. It’s gotta be 540, 540, 540. Don’t you just wanna lay into a honkin’-ass Smith grind?
That’s the thing when it comes to contests on the vert scene right now. There’s a rhythm to vert. If you want to be doing 540s and 720s in your run, you gotta be trying that every day and not touching anything else. And I never really skated that way. When I’m home I’m mostly filming and shooting photos, not trying to put runs together. And then when the contest comes around? “Oh wait—I gotta put a run together!” I’ve always done it in that looser way. It’s so competitive right now that if I really wanted to consistently win on vert, I’d need to consistently skate like I’m training to win. What I really enjoyed—I think it was last year when I won one of those Dew Tours the same month that I won the X-Games—was being able to still skate the Mega and then go out and win a contest on vert without a 720. But still, I look at that run and wonder how  I could do that all the time and not be bored.
Who are the judges who count up the 540s? When we were kids and judging contests, we’d all know who fuckin’ won—it was the guy who was ripping.
It’s so close and technical these days—every contest is so subjective. What are you gonna do? Mark down what kind of 540s we put down? Or how many you did, or the total number of degrees you spun in your whole run? I think it should be about overall design and tricks. Some lip tricks are even harder than 540s. I think that once the spinning and height came into play, everyone started going in that direction. It’s good to not stay so low, to bring the bionic—but it definitely takes a different approach. It’s straight training.
At one of the first Slam City contests, you had a line. You said, “If I do this line, I win.” You went out and did the line, and you did win. You stuck to that line and you won it.
Well, you just kept hounding me about dropping into a 540. And I don’t think I’ve ever started a line like that. Once the 540 was out of the way, everything was alright.
That was Slam City Jam ’95, with the blindside kickflip indy to fakie.
Kickflip indy to fakie and the switch roll-ins and all that. I didn’t even think I’d make it through the finals. If you look back at the history of vert, it’s still the same ramp. Obviously it was much smaller then, but it was still exciting. Vert’s exciting to me. I love going out there and learning new tricks, I love transferring everything I’ve learned to the Mega. Doing stuff on the Mega’s quarterpipe is a lot easier than doing the same thing on vert. It’s just that the consequences are on another level. When you land low, it’s a car accident. Every time you slam it takes you out a little longer. But when it actually comes to doing the tricks, I’d so much rather skate Mega, just because I’ve already learned to do all the airs, and the reward is so much greater.
Frontside flip
What’s the highest air you’ve ever done on the quarterpipe?
It was probably at one of those events, and it probably wasn’t an air, it was probably a 540. I’d rather do 540s than airs.
Look at Danny Way in China. He was trying to make that air and he was like 40-feet out. He was scared, saying,  “I just wanna make the quarterpipe.”
You wanna make it, but you don’t know if you should. He had a broken foot.
He’s Danny Way. Nobody’s going to tell him sit down.
That’s what you gotta do. You tell him to sit down, he stands up. You tell him to go, he stops. Danny’s a whole other reality. I’ve taken a little from Danny’s page as far as the quarterpipe. When you’re jumping 70 feet and then you’re hitting the quarter going that fast, you don’t like it. It’s just a matter of getting through with it as quickly as possible. If I have to warm up to a 540 with a backside air, it’s just as scary, so if I’m gonna get up there, I’d rather be doing something. When you just do a straight backside air 25-feet-plus, you got so much time to wait and think and get scared. So I’d rather just get upside down and spin.
Did Jake make the 900?
He hasn’t. We’ve all been tinkering with it. The thing with the quarter is, if you start spinning off wrong, you end up Like Danny with his shins hitting  the coping.
That was brutal.
So that’s scary. And then when you get out of control like Jake did, when he landed on the flatbottom… When you’ve got those things going through your mind, it’s hard  for you to go for a 900 spin lofting at 20 feet.  I was absolutely floored when I saw Jake try to put one down. He got full rotation, but the thing is, you’re falling from the sky. For you to commit to that kinda height and spin, but then you over-rotate, it’s over. If you do a slam on the Mega where you ride the tranny and then hit the flat, I mean, good night. When it’s all said and done, I’ve got this Flip video wrapped up, along with the pressure of coming up with stuff. I just love so much being able to go out to different parks now, and even hitting the streets with some of the guys. It’s tough to balance it all when you’ve got a family to feed and you have to maintain your body for all of these Mega events.
What’s your favorite Andy Roy story?
Oh man, there’s plenty. That whole  phase is a blur to me. So much went down—the crazy part is, when I first came out to San Francisco and started meeting all the guys, I remember thinking, “Wow, so this is skateboarding. This is the groove, this is the crew, this is it.” I remember it being so raw. We skated everywhere we went and there were all these characters. I mean, I grew up in Brazil. I speak English, but my culture was completely different. And to see an Andy Roy come out, obviously I had heard of him, but to get to interact with him… He’s the coolest guy, but then all of a sudden he just clicks and transforms into this still-cool but gnarly dude. And then he shaves his head and he’s got a spiderweb tat? This guy is for real, man. I just remember being on trips with him, and all of a sudden he’d start punching you—which meant that he loved you. “Alright, I guess I’ll punch you back.”
Do you have an energy drink sponsor?
I have Sambazon, Acai power. That’s the jungle love, man.
What about the sunglasses? They’re all made from economically-correct plastic?
Oakley sends the leftovers from doing all their glasses to Black and Decker. They’ve been recycling for awhile. I was like, “Let’s just do a piece where we grab all that and put it back together, making another glass.” All the packaging is recycled paper, soy ink and all that. I’ve always wanted to have signature glasses, but I wanted to wait and do it the right way.
Switch backside tailgrab
So Oakley and Hurley are the big cheddar checks? I’d imagine board sales aren’t that significant. The board you ride the Mega with has gotta be 35 inches long.
Yeah. If you’re going to make what I ride, you’re probably not going to sell many of them. And even if I had high board sales,  it still doesn’t compare. People wear clothes and buy shoes and wear glasses more than they skate.
Because they don’t have to jump the fuckin’ Mega, bro. They can live that fantasy by putting the costume on.
You want to be there for all your sponsors, but I’ve always thought that your board sponsor is the company that keeps it together when it’s all dark. If all of this stuff wasn’t popular, the board companies would still be there, and a lot of the other companies wouldn’t. You can win all the medals and  the X-Games, but if you don’t have a  board sponsor…
Then who are you?
See? There’s something to it.
Who makes the best skateparks?
What’s still ingrained in my memory are places like Marseille, Shanghai, the Caymans…
And, number one, Red built what?
Well, you know Burnside is right there. I went with Joey back in 1994.  I remember doing  an indy 540 over  the spine. It took like 18 hours to get there from SF. We were on the Greyhound and I was like, “Where are we going? I thought you said it was just around the corner?” And then once I got there, I couldn’t believe the whole scene. You know what it is? When you want to skate and you want something done, you just go and do it. I felt like Burnside could have been built by Brazilians. That’s their mentality.
Alright Bob, it’s always a pleasure.  Keep skating bro.
Hell yeah Jake. You know what’s funny, as much pressure as there’s been to get the Flip video done, it’s almost like I’ll miss it, because I miss the pressure of having to put something together to stoke people out. But regardless, you’ve got to keep learning, keep filming, keep going. People always ask if I’m ever going to take a break and rest. It’s like, “Yeah. One day I’ll die.” I’ll sleep when I’m dead. But right now I skate.

---

Posted: October 27th, 2009
"If you white, you’re the gringo. Even if  you from Japan. If you white, you white.  You gringo."
Interview & photos by Michael Burnett
Are you feeling the pressure  on this video?
Fuck yeah, I am. A lot of pressure.
This is your first video part?
Yes.
Tell me what happened. Didn’t you have a video part done two or three years ago, but you kept growing?
I keep growing and my part was done.  At the time it was good.
How long ago?
I don’t know, like, two years ago. I had a fuckin’ six-minute part. But the rest of the team wanted to keep going. Maybe they wanted new riders for the video. It sucks.  I mean, it’s not “sucks,” but the old footage, they aren’t going to use it ’cause I look like a little rat. A small rat. Now I look like a big rat.
Frontside 360
Were there any tricks from the little rat days that you wish you could include in the video?
That I can’t do no more?
Or that you don’t want to do it again or it’s at a spot far away?
Yeah. There was this spot in England. It was this big drop that no one’s done before. Someone did it, but I did it from the top—so it was like a weird spot. I went down and then I, how you say, slide on your back?
Baker maker?
Yeah, yeah, that’s it. But I have to do that because I have to slow down. There’s a hill before the big gap.
You had to slow down coming down  the hill?
Yeah, it was too fast before the big gap.
So you did a powerslide?
Yeah, powerslide—that’s the right word.  So I powerslide for like four seconds. It looks so good on the footage. And then after that  I ollie this massive gap to another bank. It was crazy but I look like a fuckin’ five-year-old kid there. You know? I’m still the same size now but my face got older.
You didn’t get any taller?
Not really.
You’re taller than when I first met you, for sure. But you haven’t gotten bigger in the last few years?
No, but my dick did. And my balls.
Switch backside flip
Do you think your balls are as big  as Ewan’s?
I don’t know. I never seen Ewan’s balls.
Me neither, but apparently they’re freakishly large.
He could entertain people. They go down  to the floor or something?
He says when he sits down on the toilet they go into the water.
Holy shit!
But just his balls. Nothing else.
Yeah, it’s like girls. Some of their boobs  are down and some are small.
Some are saggy.
Yeah, saggy. Saggy balls.
So what’s going to happen with all your midget footage?
Disappear. Maybe when I’m old it can come out somewhere.
How many times did Ewan go to Colombia to film?
For the mini-ramp part? Twice. He went  in 2006 and 2007.
What did your family think of their teenage son showing up with this 30-year-old bald white man?
Everyone loves it. Everyone’s like, “Oh my God! The gringo! The gringo!” And Ewan’s all, “I’m not a fucking gringo! I’m from Scotland!”
What did they say?
If you white, you’re the gringo. Even if  you from Japan. If you white, you white.  You gringo.
Did he fit in down there?
Yeah. Everyone loves him. He’s been there five times, but he’s been there three times  for Christmas. Good times. Straight party.  We killed a pig and everything.
Ollie
Did you bury it in the yard?
No. You’re kind of not allowed to do it anymore but we still did it. Good times when you kill the pig. One time we kill the pig and he’s on the fire and everyone think, “Yeah. He’s dead.” He was starting to burn and then he wake up and start running around the house with the fire and everything!
A pig on fire started running around  the house?
It was tight.
What did you do?
Everyone starts stabbing him on the  heart again.
Stabbing him in the heart?
Yeah.
And this is for Christmas?
Yeah, Christmas and New Year.
Oh man. Sounds like a nice time.  Were there any tricks for the video  that you didn’t get to do?
I don’t really plan anything, but I wanted to do some more tricks. I just want to keep going, but I hurt my ankle. It’s not bad. I hurt my ankle two weeks before the video is over, so I’m like, “Pffft! What am I doing?”
What do you do when you’re hurt?
Just hang out with my girlfriend at  my house.
And you live on your own now. How is it?
It’s too good. Naked. Walk around naked 24 hours a day. Anything. Get drunk naked.  A lot of times when I get drunk I just take  my clothes off.
Do you think your roommate Luan  will ever come back?
I hope so.
How much rent does he owe you?
Five months. I’m living here for five months.
Kickflip
And he’s never paid?
Never paid! Not even once! I’m sure he will pay me, but we’ll see. This place is pretty big for me. We rent it because it was two people. We can go half and half. But if it was just me maybe I get a smaller place that’s not so  much money.
Have you had any problems with the neighbors?
The neighbors right here are alcoholics so they don’t care if I make a lot of noise. And then the back one is pretty crazy. He’s like 60-year-old gay guy. The new Flip team manager, Andrew, he party with him not too long ago.
Yeah?
He calls me but I’m sleeping, and the next thing I heard the neighbor is fucking yelling at him, telling him to fuck off.
He got in a fight with the neighbors?
Yeah, the neighbor tries to fight but he’s  a really mellow guy. In the end, he party  with him.
So they decided not to fight and to  party instead?
Yeah. Fun times. And then he was too wasted so he gave him a ride home.
Sounds like good neighbors.
Yeah. They’re great.
How’s the guitar playing going?
Great. I’m playing the harmonica, too.
Was “The Wizard” the first song you learned on harmonica?
Yeah, “The Wizard.” You heard, right? I play that ’cause I can’t sing.
You can sing.
No way. My voice is horrible.
Maybe you just need to practice.
I just want to play the guitar. I’m not too good, but I’m learning.
Lipslide. Sequence: Cuthbertson
What’s your favorite songs to learn?
Black Sabbath songs.
Those are hard, right? Tony Iommi’s  no lightweight.
I play all “War Pigs” with the solo, everything. I can play like five songs. That’s how I want to play, like Black Sabbath.
What was meeting Lemmy from Motörhead like?
Oh, man. When I saw him I almost passed out. I didn’t know what to do. I was like, “What should I do? Should I pass out? Should I chill?” I decided to chill. He was amazing. He’s a really nice guy, and real rock ’n’ roll guy.
A real rock ’n’ roller.
He’s a rock ’n’ roller for life. That’s what  I want to be some day.
What are your favorite Motörhead songs?
I like “Whorehouse Blues” a lot, because of the harmonica. I can play that part. I like the whole album, Bastards.
Are you going to see AC/DC soon?
In one week. In Anaheim. The gnarly tickets are like $2,000. I got the $300 tickets. That’s pretty good. That’s not too far from Angus. I can’t drink, so I’m going to put the little bottles of alcohol under my dick and try getting in. I got like five or six.
In the first interview we did, you said that you’ve seen drugs and alcohol ruin the talent of many people. Have you changed your mind?
I can’t even remember saying that. I don’t do drugs. Sometimes I do drugs, but I drink quite a lot and I’m still exactly the same.
Watch out. You’re exactly the same until you’re 23 or 25. Wait and see!
What happens?
You start getting the party neck.  Get bloated and haggard.
Fuck that. I want to party forever, but if I feel myself getting like that I will stop. Definitely.
Will you stay here for a while?
I wish I could live in Colombia but it’s  not worth it. For now it’s better living here. Long Beach is good.
What do you like about it?
It’s got everything. It’s mixed with American, Latin—everything. Pretty much everyone here speaks Spanish. Lots of Mexican restaurants.
What else is going to blow people’s minds in this video?
Shane’s part is going to blow everyone’s minds. I want to make this part for Shane and my friend, Kangaroo, back in Colombia.
Did Kangaroo pass away?
Yeah. Same year as Shane. I want to make the video for them. I want to dedicate the first one for them.
First video. But you turned pro before the video?
Yeah. They ask me so I say yes.
Who’s next to turn pro?
Luan.
Kickflip tailslide
But he has to come back first, right?
Yeah. He has to pay me the rent first and then turn pro. I think he’s already pro. He will go to a pro contest and he will win. He’s that good, I’m serious.
Do you have any superstitions?
Nothing. I don’t care about any of that shit.
When are you going to drive a car?
I don’t know how to drive a car. I don’t  have a license. I want to buy a good car, but not too expensive.
Geoff says he wants to die on his board. What about you?
Yeah, man. On the board.
While holding a guitar?
Yeah, man. And holding a bottle of rum. Straight to hell, boy! ’Cause I’m not going to heaven, that’s for sure.
Why not?
I don’t know. I don’t really want to hang out with my aunties in heaven. I will definitely want to be like Lemmy. I want to be 60 years old, long hair, all black, fucked up face, saggy balls, everything.
Are you scared to get a pentagram  or upside-down cross tattoo?
I got one. I got both of those already.
Playin’ with fire, boy.
Yeah. Playin’ with fire. Welcome to hell, baby.
Now that your girlfriend is staying at your house, have you started using the toilet instead of peeing in jars?
Not really. Sometimes I go outside. Sometimes it’s too far away.
Do you know it’s an old American custom to pee in the toilet? Did you grow up with a toilet in your house?
Yeah. But still.
Do you ever take a shit in the yard?
No, no. I’m good. Maybe it’s going to happen, though.
What are your plans for the future?
The Globe video.
On the Internet?
No, DVD. That’s going to be good.
What else?
Sex, drugs, and rock ’n’ roll. Party every day. AC/DC concert.
Will you ever have a ponytail?
Fuck no. No way. I look like a fucking girl, normal. Think if I did that crazy shit!
Do you have some advice for  those messed-up kids out there that  read Thrasher?
Keep it real. Rock ’n’ roll. Don’t give up.

---

Posted: October 22nd, 2009
"I'm not into killing them, but I love butchering them."
Interview by Schmitty | Captions by Diego Bucchieri
I've known Diego for a long time.
When he first started living in the US, my house was one of the spots he stayed at. He and I became a two-man team, travelling, filming, and enjoying the life while trying not to "break our heads." We worked on a few video projects together and he really helped me learn to see things differently and get creative. His passion for skateboarding is something you rarely see. He seems to always have a plan, and he knows the steps to get there. I haven't seen him in a few years since he moved to Spain, but for sure the term amigo will always remain. Here's an exclusive web interview to catch you up with The Butcher.
Damn Diego, what's it been, like five years-plus since we've hung out?
Yeah, it’s been a while. Last time I saw you was at the RVCA mini ramp contest for a hot second. Before then was at the Wallenberg contest—the first one—about five years ago.
So are you still the vegetarian butcher, or are you eating meat now?
Fuck no, it's been so long since I stated eating meat again. I'm actually into trying all kind of different meats. Argentinean asado; that's still my favorite one. I even slaughtered three lambs and a pig. They taste so much better if you do it yourself. I'm not into killing them, but I love butchering them.
Frontside 180, 605 Ditch, USA. People skates this flat gap with the fake bump. Fuck the bump.
When did you put together a website, and how long have you been taking photos?
It was about a year and a half ago. I had all these photos that I wanted to share with everyone, and since I was shooting a bunch of skate photos as well, I thought it was gonna be a good idea. I've been shooting photos for over 14 years, since I was 18.
Do any of the big mag photographers ever get mad at you for taking photos if you’re shooting the same stuff as them?
No, not at all. I’ve only been on one trip—with Burnett—where we were shooting the same stuff, but I was just fucking around and he was totally cool about it. I wouldn't do that to anyone that I respect.
Backside air, Guadalajara, Mexico. I learned backside airs after 20-something years of skating, and I've been doing them everywhere I go. Baby quarterpipe, baby backside air.
How's the married life?
Married life… It’s got up and downs, like anything else, but overall it's great. It's a bit harder for traveling, but we make it work.
How are your legs?
My knee is finally getting good. It's been over a year since the surgery, and even though the recovery is really slow, it feels great to be able to jump around again.
What's your favorite memory of Jake Phelps?
There are way too many to choose one, but driving around SF with him and Mic-E while they were showing me the most gnarly and hard-to-skate spots was a great one. He would lie to me, trying to convince me to do shit at spots that people got killed at. I'm sure he still does it with all the new kids.
Wallie. Barcelona, Spain
. I found this spot on my way to another. Really crappy, but fun.
What spot that you’d seen in the mags impressed you the most when you finally saw it in person?
Almost all of them. You’re always expecting something different. There are only a few spots where the photo or footage does it justice. A lot of the things that Geoff and Arto skated are like that.
That double set that you ended your part with in Scorching Summer. Did anyone else try it before you? Was that one of the biggest jumps you've taken on a skateboard?
I think Jamie and Reynolds tried it before, but they couldn't roll away. That was probably the biggest ollie that I have done as far as a drop. I would rather go farther than higher. It was one of those things that I wanted to do for a while and Phelper told me that Kasper was gonna do it, so I thought it was the right time to go for it.
Other than landing the ollie, what do you remember most about it?
It was the craziest day. After I told Jake that I was gonna do it, we met up at the school and he showed up with Luke, the Gonz, and some random dude with a dog. Luckily I made it second try and Gonz was there to see it.
What's new with the Toy Machine besides Leo Romero? Are you working on another video, or do you have some big tours coming up?
We’re finishing a new promo video—it should be out in the beginning of November, and after that we’ll start filming for a full length.
Who has better musical tastes, Josh or Austin?
I'm not sure. Probably about the same.
What's the newest music that you’re rocking?
Oasis, always.
Frontside 5-0, Barcelona
, Spain. The police station is right across the street from this spot, so after shooting the photo as quickly as possible, I packed all my shit and left. I realized I left my board at the spot once I got home. Great.
What do you miss most about living in SF?
Skating around, hanging out at Thrasher, and good Mexican food.
What do you miss most about LA?
Nothing. Long Beach is so much better.
What's the best part of living where you do?
Right now, I'm living with my parents-in-law for just the summer. After that, my wife and I are going to Long Beach for a few months, and then to Argentina for the summer there—so we’re gonna be moving around for a bit. Not sure where we’ll end up, but traveling is always fun.
What's the sketchiest situation you've found yourself in?
One year, my friends and I were drinking some beers at our local spot for Christmas, and a bunch of idiots starting shooting fireworks at us. So we threw beer bottles back at them. They got pissed and charged us. One dude had a broken bottle and tried to cut my throat with it. After dodging him I ran, but the guy chased me for about 10 blocks. Luckily I escaped.
Frontside wallride, Guadalajara, Mexico. Nesser ollie over the door to backside wallride is impossible!
What does "Breaking Your Head" mean?
My friend Luchi came to the US to visit me, so we went on a road trip to AZ and Colorado. After seeing the Grand Canyon, he said, "This is breaking my head," meaning “it's blowing my mind.” He literately translated it from Spanish to English.
How often do you visit the Argie homies?
About once a year. This year I'm gonna spend a few months there, so it’ll be fun to hang out with them for more than a week.
What is Buenos Muchachos?
It’s an Argentinean skate mag. It means "Good Fellas."
Kickflip wallride, Alicante, Spain. Spending my summer in Elche, I skated with Roberto Aleman a bunch. We found lots of spots and this was one of them.
Imagine that you transformed into being the traveler, Kenny Reed. What un-traveled-to spot would you visit first?
Siracussa, Sicily, where my father's family is from.
Who do you think should be SOTY this year?
Leo Romero.
Ollie, Barcelona, Spain. This is the famous spot where everyone skates the banks. I always try to look at spots in a different way, and I came up with this ollie from one pyramid to the other.
Why weren't you at the Skatepark Roundup with the Toy Machine team?
Unfortunately, I've been stuck in Spain for the last 4 months waiting for my work visa to come through. It finally got approved, but way too late for the skatepark session with the boys.
What does the future hold for The Butcher?
Shoot more photos, and keep skating until my legs fall off.
Most importantly, when can I see you again? It's been way too long.
Thanks bro. Soon, very soon.

---

Hurricane, Photo: Dominick
Posted: March 19th, 2009
"I can feel the tears welling up in his eyes while he reads this"
Interview by Jeff Grosso
Is it true that your girlfriend puts your skateboards together?
It’s true she tried, but she couldn’t do it. She tried to put it together with no bearings and no bolts. Looked good on the carpet, though.
Where are you from?
I live in San Diego, CA, but I’m originally from Minnesota.
How long have you been skating?
Whew! I’ve been skating since ’84.
What was your first board?
My first board was a Roller Derby. My first legit board was a  Mark Gonzales. My dad cut the griptape into an Aztec sun. It was a really nice board. I traded it for a Vision Hippie Stick. Biggest mistake of my life as far as skateboards. If anybody knows where that board is, I will buy it back.
The Hippie Stick?
No. The Vision Mark Gonzales with the Aztec sun.
You’re hoping it still exists somewhere?
It’s hidden in someone’s garage. Guaranteed.
’Cause the griptape job was that good?
When I traded for the Hippie Stick, my parents were pissed. “Your father spent 20 minutes on that griptape job and you just give it away like that!”
So you weren’t into your heritage back then.
I just wanted whatever the kid next door had.
How did you get into it?
I wish I could lie to you, but I started like a lot of people: BMX bicycles.  I was a BMXer and I used to jump dirt and try to take my hand off the grip about an inch. There was a BMX Plus magazine with an article: “Skaters versus Bikers.” There were photos of Chris Miller and Erik Juden at Upland versus Eddie Fiola. The bikers were going 10 times higher, but for some reason I wanted to skate after that. Plus, I could fit it into my locker at school.
How did you get into serious skateboarding?
The neighbors down the street, they were a little bit older than me and they were the kids with the nunchucks and throwing stars and Hutch Trick Stars, and they built a quarterpipe and were ripping. Then we finally got our bikes and we tried to rip, but by the time we got our bikes they had already moved on to skateboarding and they had a halfpipe down the street. So I went and sat up on the back of the ramp, on the roll-in, for about three days. Finally they pushed me down that roll-in and that started it all. I started meeting more and more skaters, and then I ended up at this placed called PISS—Private Indoor Skate Spot, in Minneapolis—and those dudes were good. Everybody could do frontside airs and backside airs. There was Dave Leroux, Eric Froland, and Justin Lynch.
Don’t say Justin Lynch.
Yeah. A lot of people don’t like him. He was a dick to me, too, but he could blast six-foot airs. He was like a robot. I didn’t know the difference then between robot skating and fluent skating. He was going in the air so high and I was impressed.
When did you first come out  to California?
It was for the NSA am finals when they had the contest at the Ecke Family YMCA.  I went out there for the contest, and I was like, “This ramp sucks! Is this for real?” Then I came out the next year, and I was thinking, “Why am I here?” But I made the move.
You washed up at the beach.
Yeah. Mission Beach.
And you’re the unofficial mayor?
I can wave when I walk down the  street, yeah.
Airwalk, Photo: Rhino
So you’ve got a Mike Smith,  Hermosa Beach thing going?
Yeah. I like that.
Lots of trouble to be had?
Yeah. I’d end up at the bar for a couple weeks. People would be like, “Do you even skate anymore?” and I’d say, “I skated yesterday… Oh you’re right, that was a month ago.”
Michael Burnett: Tell the story about your Mexican relatives who came over.
Yeah. I have a cousin who walked across the border—crossed the desert on foot and everything. He called my father and is all, “I’m here!” He picked him up in the desert on the side of the road. His lips were falling off, his skin was peeling, but he made it. He made it across the desert and up to Minnesota. Owns his own restaurant. Hopefully he lives happily every after. He’s got a green card; it’s a card that’s green. If someone asks him for it he shows them, but in Minnesota nobody knows what a green card looks like anyway. Never saw one before.
MB: What were the lean years like, back when there were no parks and barely any ramps?
That was harsh. We lived at the Hesh House in the ’90s. We had an indoor vert ramp in Milwaukee, 24-feet wide. It was me, Hitz, Partanen, Jay Iding, and Rob Owen—the Hesh Crew. Sam and me would fight for a pair of Zombu wheels, 50s. They’d get ’em at the skateshop and he’d jump on his bicycle and I’d run, and the first dude there would get the last set of Zombu wheels. He got ’em, and I had  to ride 45s.
You guys are part of the lost generation of vert guys.
There was this time period where I got good. I was getting face-high airs, and I’m thinking, “Okay. This is good. I’m making it.” Then the wheels went tiny and I was back to foot-high airs. I was thinking, “What happened?” I tried street skating and was doing a noseslide on a curb and this kid came up to me and was all, “You’re doing it wrong!” From there I just started riding old stuff and doing what I could. I don’t know how we got through that.
360 crail, Sequence: Rhino
MB: So they gave you a dead brand, Creature, and you miraculously turned it into one of the industry’s top sellers. How did that work?
First generation Creature, I was at the trade show skating the mini-ramp. I guess I was skating well so  Jim Gray came up to me and said, “Hey. Come by the booth. We want to give you some stuff.” I’m thinking, “Cool, I’ve heard that before.” I was walking towards there and I walked by the NHS booth and Russ Pope calls me over. He says, “I like what you’re doing. I like the shape of your nose. We want you to ride for SMA.” I came home so stoked. “I ride for SMA!” Then I get a call: “SMA is done, but we’re starting a new brand called Creature. You’re perfect for it. You’re weird looking—tall and dorky and lanky. You’ve got a fucked-up face. You’re perfect.” I was thinking, “Man, I thought they wanted me for my skating but, whatever, I’ll take it.” So that was first-generation Creature. It was Barker Barrett, Jason Adams, and myself. Then they decided to leave NHS and start Scarecrow. I didn’t want to leave NHS because it was this legendary place. You walked back there and the boards on the wall told the story to me. That was what I wanted to be a part of, and I felt like I’d finally made it. So they wanted to leave and take Scarecrow to Jim Gray, the dude who told me three times he wanted me to ride for him but never made it happen. I was over it. I stayed there. They were like, “You can stay with us and go to Europe next month or you can leave and go to Jim Gray.” So I stayed and went to Europe. They told me to put a team together, so I said, “Hitz, Partanen, Chet Childress, you want to do this?” and they said no. But then they changed their minds and we got Creature, second generation. Later, they pulled the plug on that for some reason and I ended up on 151. They taught me how to drink a lot of whiskey. I thought I was tough for a while. I thought I knew how to drink. Then that went under and I thought, “This is the story of my life.” Then I started going up to NHS and doing these meetings with Kendall and I told him I really wanted to do Creature again. He asked me why, and I said, “Because I want a job.” He told me that was the wrong answer.  What I meant was that I wanted to skateboard and make things happen and take it all the way. Somehow it’s all worked out.
MB: This is an inspirational business story.
Yeah. I feel really good about it.
MB: Here’s a question, why’d you choose to include the street skaters?
We need ’em. They allow me to travel and do some street plants around the world.
MB: How did David Gravette, the Baby Lamb, situation come about?
We needed a team and he practically fell into my lap. He’s rad. He’s down for Creature.
MB: Could Chet ever get back on Creature?
No. Sorry, Chet. But no. I asked him in the very beginning. I asked him three times, and I said, “Okay, this is the last time I’m going to ask you,” and he broke out his Ebonics and that was it. I can feel the tears welling up in his eyes while he reads this.
MB: Who are some of your favorite legends?
Just growing up seeing these dudes in the magazines was definitely a romantic experience. Tex Gibson, definitely up there. Jeff Phillips was probably number one. All the Texas dudes. Jason Jessee, obviously. Blender. Claar. Lance Mountain. Grossman, of course. Alan Losi. Steve Caballero. All those guys.
MB: Did you ever eat nachos with Phillips?
Chicken wings, about two weeks before he took his life.  I was at his park—I was a little kid and I was scared of him, this big monster, and he’s all, “You guys want to eat some chicken wings?” I was so stoked. I couldn’t say anything.  I just stared at him, eating chicken wings. That was it.
MB: Is it hard dating a girl that skates?
Yeah, it was hard. Don’t ever do it. That’s the end of that question. She’s all, “Can I come skate with you?” I’m all, “Sure. Meet me there.”
MB: How many people have to pad up before it’s okay for you to pad up?
I seem to get shit for that. It’s rad that pads aren’t cool no more. When we were kids it was like, “Rad. That guy’s got red shells. He’s got blue recaps.” It was the look of it. It’s part of your warrior stance. You can’t go into battle without your armor. I guess it’s all what you want to do.
Andrecht revert, Sequence: Dawes
MB: What are some of the signs that Peter Hewitt  is going to actually skate?
He disappears but you’ll spot him in the distance. He’s by himself. There’s smoke billowing from his mouth. He doesn’t talk to nobody. You ask him, “What do you think about this, Pete?” He’ll scoff you off and kind of yell at you for a second, and then you know he’s ready to skate. If you try and talk to Pete and he doesn’t answer you, you know it’s all business. Don’t ever ask him if he’s going to pad up ’cause he doesn’t like that. “Hey Pete. You going to pad up?” “What the fu—shit, fuck!”
MB: Describe your Creature dream lineup with any skaters, past or present.
Tex Gibson, Lance Mountain, Hosoi, Jason Jessee, Grosso, Hewitt, Steve Olson, Eric Koston. I don’t know.
I want to know how you became so noncommittal. When did you turn into Switzerland?
I never wanted enemies. I wanted alliances.
Why Ramona?
Why not Ramona? It’s nice to get out. You want to make it a struggle for people to get to it.
What was your first drink?
Beer with salt, with my father. It was a nice  Chevy Chase moment.
MB: Who’s a session killer?
Omar Hassan. Just kidding! We like to tell him that but he’s actually rad to skate with.
MB: You ever fuck around with some facial hair?
Yeah. I had some going and then somebody told me  I had a prison pussy and that was the end of that.
How long can you keep this going?
I’m trying to take it to 2012, the end of the Mayan calendar. End of the world. If I take it that far, everything’s fine. In fact, I’m banking on it. I once banked on Y2K.  I thought that was the end of the world. “I’m not going to pay my taxes.” That didn’t work out.
MB: Why did you take Sammy Baca  on your Creature tour?
We love him. You look over in the van and you see him, and you think, “Yep. This is all right.” We’ll take him on every tour we go on. We got NHS to pay for him and then we’ll have Converse pay them back.
Method to fakie, Photo: Rhino
MB: You think P-Stone’s got a cold  one right now?
Guaranteed.
MB: What handplant variations do you want to accomplish before you’re done?
A good fuckin’ sad. A good Smith. I’d like to do them the way they’re supposed to be done. Top of the food chain: Andrecht fakies. It’s weird that for some tricks you have to make a face. And then when you see that face you think, “Oh no. Don’t do that trick.”
MB: Is there a stock air that you hate? Do you do slobs?
That’s a funny story. I thought I had a good slob air. I thought I could do them pretty good and then one day this guy  told me that slobs are the worst trick ever. Never do them. Ever since then, they’ve become my worst air. That was Grosso who told me that.
There are rules. Okay? There are exceptions, but for 99-percent of the public there are tricks that should  be left alone.
Neil Blender: What year is your car?
It’s a 1953 Bel Air.
NB: Have you ever gotten laid in it?
No, but once I was at the bar and I met this girl and asked her, “You want to go on a little date?” So we walked from the bar to where my car was parked and looked at the beach. Sat in my car and made out, like old-style lover’s lane style.
NB: What year would you want to be in for two hours?
There seems to be a gap in evolution from when man was a caveman to when man built pyramids. Somewhere around then.
NB: What number looks good to you?
1785.
NB: Does time have a color?
Time fades, so it must have a color.
NB: We need a few race horse names.
Four Front, Horse With No Name.
NB: What do eagles hunt?
Eagles hunt prey.
NB: Good.

---

Posted: October 6th, 2009
"It’s crazy around here, they shooting like everyday."
Interview & photos by David Broach
Does getting your photo taken make you mad?
No, I just like it. Once it comes out you get, what’s that called?  Oh yeah, more exposure. That’s a good thing.
Not the skate photos, the face photos. How come you don’t ever smile when someone takes a portrait of you? You smile  all the time, but when the camera comes out it goes away.  So do cameras make you mad?
Oh no, I’m not mad, Broach; I’m just hot or something. It’s not  like I’m mad or anything, most of the time it’s hot and the sun’s  in my face. My eyes are burning most of the time when it’s hot.  I need Clear Eyes.
How many times do you tie your shoes in one skate session?
Oh man, it’s not—what you call it? It’s not OCD or nothing, I just don’t think I know how to tie my shoe right. I tie them at least a hundred times a day. Just when I skate, not when I’m walking around or anything. Every time I go to do a trick I look down and know that it’s not going to work the way they’re tied, so I got to fix it real quick before I can go.
Frontside kickflip
How many times do you change your shirts and shoes before you leave the house?
It depends on whatever I got.  I hardly change. One time I took  an extra shirt with me, but usually  I just take what I have on to go skate with.
Your friend Lewis said you had madness with it, that you have to change your shirts and  shoes a bunch before you leave your house.
That was a long time ago. I got to have a good shaped board and some shoes that I know I can skate in before I leave the house. Not really the shoes and shirts anymore, it’s wheels now. I’ve definitely got to be riding some new wheels. I have to ride crispy. Yup, got to ride crispy.
You’re doing home schooling right now and you’re almost done. Which did you prefer, home school or high school?
I started home school in the 10th grade and took home school for the rest of the two years.
Was that just so you could skate more?
Yeah, that’s what it was for, and so I could go traveling. It started with that first Altamont trip to Paris. I kept asking my sister for, like, six months straight if I could get it, and then finally she got tired of me asking and said yes.
Did you miss high school, or do you like the home school more?
I miss high school because of some of the girls and some of my homies that I would play basketball with at lunch. But I still get to  see my homies, because the home school isn’t too far from my house. This is a little better because I get to go skate more and film.  Or just practice skating everyday.
Speaking of practicing, how are the dance moves coming along? I heard from a good source that you’ve been  practicing the jerk.
Oh, jerkin! Yeah, I’ve been practicing…but only when nobody is at the house. I make a fool of myself. But I’ve been practicing by myself, never around anyone.
Do you practice in the mirror?
I practice in the front of the TV. I watch the video by myself and try to get it down. I do it for like 20 minutes, take a break, and then get back to it. I haven’t shown anyone that knows how yet.
Switch heelflip
Let’s get into some stories about Theotis. I went to pick you up one time and you told me gunshots had just been fired about a block away from your house. Let’s hear that story again.
Lewis and me were outside my house skating one day and I thought it was fireworks. Even though Fourth of July wasn’t here yet, I still thought it was fireworks or a cherry bomb or something. I thought it was a pack of them going off all at once, like real quick. Then Lewis was like, “No, it’s gunshots,” so we ran into the house. It’s crazy around here, they shooting like everyday. Where  I live, Altamont can send me only neutral color shirts—black, grey, or whatever, other colors like green.  I can’t be wearing any other colors, just neutral ones.
Anyone who’s ever met you knows how nice a guy you are. How did you turn out so good growing up around all that stuff? Most kids could have gone in a different direction.
I think I turned out good. My mom, she raised me good. I remember I called her and said thank you for that not long ago. She just made me act like myself, not try to act cool or anything.
You live in Inglewood, CA, right?
I live with my sister now, and her boyfriend and her boyfriend’s kids.
How many people live with you then?
One…two…three…four…five…six—six, including me.
Where’s your mom at right now then? Did she send you to  live with your sister for a while?
She stays out in Alabama. She had just bought a house out there.  I hadn’t seen her for a while but she showed up in Atlanta because  it’s not that far from Alabama where she lives. She showed up  for the Nike video. It was really cool. We even had a special  premiere at the hotel for her. I haven’t lived with my mom  for a while.
I’m sure she sent you with your sister for a good reason.
She was going to take me back to Alabama but I didn’t want to go. I would have been too country when I got back out here. People would have been like, “Man, where have you been for so long?” I stayed out here because Drew had started flowing me boards for Baker. If I had gone, I don’t think I would have had the same opportunities there as I would have out here. I wouldn’t be on the companies I’m on now. I’m thankful for that.
Backside double kickflip
What would you do if you didn’t skate?
Play basketball or something like that. Playing basketball, for the Inglewood Jets maybe. Or football. Or maybe some other sport; I don’t know.
I remember you would go over to the old Baker house on Hollywood Boulevard for weeks on end. Did your sister send you over, or did you just want to go?
I would just go to skate. Also to make it easier on Beagle, so he wouldn’t have to come pick me up all the time. I would stay all week, then on Sunday or Sunday night he would give me a ride home.
You don’t do drugs or drink or smoke or anything, so was it hard to hang out at the Baker house sometimes?
It never bothered me. I just always kept my head positive. Never wanted to try anything, just never wanted to do it. All the homies want the best for me, so there was never any peer pressure. They all want to see me do good. To be a part of one of the best companies is just such a good thing.
Didn’t Beagle make a rule that you couldn’t watch the same video over  and over?
No, it was Flip. He said after 9 pm I couldn’t be watching skate videos. I remember I tried to watch the Black Label video after 9 pm and he took it out and threw it over the balcony onto the street! I went out there to look for it and it was gone. I was bummed, ’cause I was trying to collect all these videos and it was never to be seen again. That Black Label video was good.
Now that you’re 18, do you see any face tats in your future?
Oh no…face tats. I would never think about any face tattoos, but probably a normal tattoo. Something that I thought about for a while maybe. But no face tattoos at all!
Do you think you’ll move out of your house someday and move to Hollywood like the rest of the guys?
I hope so! Because that’s where I always wanted to live. It’s got the stars, it’s all lit up at night, and you and your homies can walk wherever you want. I want to move closer to some of the homies. It would be really good.  I could go out skating and filming everyday.
You going to be with Braydon up in the clubs? Hanging out with the Muska and Paris Hilton?
For sure. With Muska and the Hiltons drinking Coca-Cola. I went to the bar once, but I was like 17 at the time. I don’t know why they let me in. I don’t look 21. But Reno just bought me bottles of Coca-Cola all night.  It was fun.

---

by Josh Smith
Let’s start this thing off with the regular stats question.
Alright, my name is Collin Provost, I’m from Huntington Beach, CA, I’m 18, and my sponsors are Volcom, Element, Emerica, Thunder, Spitfire, and Oakley.
How does it feel to be born and raised in Surf City, USA?
It’s not too bad, I guess. There’s no spots anymore and I only hang out with about three people from HB. Besides that I’m never really home, but I’ve basically lived in the same half-mile radius since I was born. We’ve moved around four times, but always really close by. Right now we live in my grandma’s house that she had to sell.
So your parents bought your grandma’s house when she put it on the market?
Yeah, it’s the house that my mom actually grew up in, so when my grandma had to give the house up, we had to get in there. We’ve been living in this house for about six years now. The room my mom grew up in is my room now.
What’s the mandatory morning stop before you go skate?
Starbucks, for sure. I already got there this morning. It’s basically the meet-up spot. Everyone meets there and chills for a bit, and then we go skate.
Pole wallie. Photo courtesy of Element
What gets you hyped to go skate these days?
All the homies, basically. Just going out and skating with the crew. Music also, for sure. Gotta listen to some good shit to get you pumped. Sabbath, Led Zeppelin—whatever’s killin’ it.
You recently got your first tattoo. What’s it all about?
I got KO on my wrist. It’s just our little crew to go skate with and have some good times: Chris, Figgy, Dickson, John Demar, Joey, Spencer, and Stoogles. A couple of us got the tattoo to represent.
Favorite places you’ve traveled to through skateboarding?
Puerto Rico has definitely got to be one of ’em. We had a good trip there. Just super sick places that we stayed at, and good skating. We got to stay at a pretty sick little beach house for a couple days.
What happened to you at the beach house?
Oh my god. I don’t even know. I just woke up one morning and my face kinda felt fat, but I didn’t even think about it. Then I went outside and started talking to Suski, and he said, “Man, what happened to your face Collin?” The whole side of my face was just completely swollen. I guess a spider or something bit me while I was sleeping. When I got home from the trip I had to get a sewing needle and poke a hole in my cheek and squeeze puss out for three days.
A lengthy boardslide. Photo courtesy of Element
Where else have you been recently?
I went to China with Element. China was rad! It was Darrell, Tony, Levi, Tim Tim, and me. Just a good posse and so much skating everyday, and the spots are the best. It’s better than a skatepark. You basically skate brand new marble ledges every time you go skate. The smog is insane, though; it looked like it was constantly foggy. I was coughing up the gnarliest shit out there. Karaoke at the hotel bar was always fun.
What was your go-to Karaoke song?
I think I was just trying to sing it all. Nobody else was in the hotel bar besides our crew, so we would just take over the karaoke every night and hit on the bartenders because they were two girls. If I had to pick a song it would be The Doors’ “Love Me Two Times.”
Any other good stories from your trips?
Here’s a funny one from when I went to Australia. We were in Bondi, and me and Darrell were hangin’ out with this chick who we’d hollered at earlier on the street. I was like 15 at the time. We told her that I was the lead singer of Slayer and Darrell was the drummer, and she fully believed it for a long time. She was super hyped. It was hilarious.
fs blunt. Photo: Camarillo
You used to surf a lot, right? I saw you shredding in Puerto Rico.
Yeah, I barely even surf anymore, though. My school was like a block from the beach, so you could take Surf PE as your PE credits. You could basically walk back to school from the beach if you wanted to. I would way rather surf in the morning during school than take a regular gym class. Now I just want to go skate. Plus, I used to wake up really early and surf before I would skate. Now I can’t wake up before noon. Puerto Rico was the last time I surfed, and I hadn’t surfed in forever before that.
Shout-outs?
All the homies, my parents, and all of my sponsors—good looks, all you fools!

---

by Schmitty
"So anything I said that night should've been disregarded immediately."
How often do you go to Disneyland?
On average, maybe once a month. A lot of people I know are starting to get annual passes so I've been going more lately.
How's living with Raymond?
It’s easy. He spends a lot of time iChatting with hundreds of people so I'm always well informed as to what’s going on in the world.
How was your recent trip to China?
It was alright. We were in Shenzen where it’s really good to skat,e but the language barrier makes it hard to go out or go sight seeing. We really just skated all day and hung around the hotel at night.
When you need to film for a video, do you prefer to get a crew together, or do you prefer more of a “just-you-and-the-filmer” scenario?
It matters. It's nice to have a good crew to go out with, it makes for a good time. But if I'm really trying to concentrate and film it's better for me to be on my own.
What's the deal with Fat Camp?
Jesus! I guess Brink gave you that piece of information. I had a two-week bender where I was eating cake and ice cream everyday, like a depressed Brian Wilson. So on an eS trip, these dudes started giving me shit for not ordering or eating any desert after dinners. I think they saw me making a serious effort to lay off the chocolate, so they started calling me fat camp.
Switch kickflip
What the hell happened to you guys in Peru? How close were you to getting shot?
While we were skating a spot, a guy ran up on Mike Manzoori, pointed a gun in his face, and grabbed his camera. As he was about to jump in a getaway car, the guy did the same to Oliver Barton. As Oliver tried to grab his camera back they shot a couple of rounds into the air. I was a pretty good distance away. It happened so quickly I couldn't react, so I just stood there and watched everything unfold. I had the best seat in the house.
T
op three things you must bring on every trip besides your skateboard?
I usually try to bring a guitar. Lately I've been bringing my computer, and of course some heavy psychedelics.
Favorite places that skateboarding has taken you?
I appreciate everywhere I go, but Central and South America would have to be my favorites—the food, the weather, the language, everything.
Favorite TV shows?
I like that show Locked Up. I just started getting into The Wire. Of course Arrested Development and Curb Your Enthusiasm are great.
Do you spend much time on the internet?
A little bit. I'll get up in the morning and check my email and stuff like that. If I have time I'll check some other sites.
What are the top three sites you check in on regularly?
Lately I’ve been checking TheOnion, Pitchforkmedia, and I always end up on YouTube.
Kickflip
What do you think of Facebook and Twitter?
I get it. The idea of communicating with people from anywhere in the world is rad. It’s cool if you want to keep in touch with old friends and all that, but it usually ends up being a place where you go to spy on your ex. Or seeing what bars a friend of a friend has been frequenting.
Who do you think is going to win Battle of the Berrics 2?
I don’t know. One of the robots, maybe. I'll go with Paul Rodriguez.
Didn’t you tell Jake during KOTR that you were going to retire if you didn't get Skater Of The Year by 2010?
That was at the KOTR party, and not only had I been drinking, but I ate a weed brownie. So anything I said that night should've been disregarded immediately.
Could this be your year?
It’s been a good year so far, but no awards for me or anything.
Who do you think will contend for this year's SOTY?
If Leo Romero can nosegrind up a legit rail, then he should get it.
Shot outs?
None.

---

Zered Bassett's Top 3's
by Giovanni Reda
New Yorkers:
Harold Hunter
Jeff Pang
Reda
Pizza spots:
Razario’s
Joe’s
Lil Frankie’s
Night spots for adult bevies:
Doc Holiday’s (daytime)
Epstein’s
Sweet P
Dudes to skate with:
Eli Reed
Joey Pepper
Kyle Isle
Babes:
Beyonce
Vida Guerra
Jenna P
Bands:
Doc Holiday’s jukebox
Brews:
Heff
Bud Light
Blue Moon
Dudes with style:
Gangemi
Ron Deily
Cards
fs crooks to fakie
Scariest moments:
Being choked by Pang
Best trips:
Cuba
Australia
H
obbies outside skateboarding:
Photography
Chilling
Drinking
Places traveled to:
Cuba
Australia
The Bronx
Best things about traveling with DVS:
Great peeps
Great times
Daewon
Jeff Pang stories:
Choking people out in every country
Regrets:
Nope!

---

Kyle Leeper's Top 3's
Skatespots:
My backyard
MACBA
Anywhere with the homies
Countries travelled to:
Australia is the best place
Bands:
Dinosaur Jr.
New Order
Joy Division
Elliot Smith
Wu Tang forever
Things you do outside of skateboarding:
Drink beer
Watch basketball
Ride bikes
Play frisbee with the dogs
Surf
Chill
Dudes with style:
Mike Carroll
Cardiel
Kenny Anderson
Babes:
Natalie Portman
Movies:
Three Men and a Baby
Best dudes to ever skate for Black Label:
Dill
Cardiel
Gino
Items in your Quiksilver packages:
Socks
Pants
Actually everything, they make tons of cool shit. I’ve got a Quiksilver leash and collar for my dog
Scariest moments:
One time we were skating a pool and a dude walked up with a shotgun and told us he was gonna bury us in the orange grove if we didn’t leave. That was pretty craze
Things about Sacramento:
Biebel
Janoski
Ray Ray
Reasons it’s better to live in SoCal:
Weather
Family
Bros to skate with:
Rygar
Travis
Kelly
Gallant
John Maguire

---

Interview by Kristian Svitak
| Photos by Matt Mecaro
How old are you and where do you live?
I’m 16 and living in Rosenberg, TX. Unfortunately.
How long have you been skating?
I’m not that good at counting. Since I was like nine.
Judo
How often do you brush your teeth? Don’t lie!
When I feel like it—I’m so punk.
Let’s get to the good stuff. I know that you’re really into music, especially punk. Here’s your chance to tell all these skate nerds about some of your favorite bands.
Liking bands isn’t punk rock.
I know you have a band. What’s the name of it and what’s it all about?
We are the best band ever formed. That’s all you need to know.
Crail-air
I’ve noticed that you don’t know much about modern day pros, but you know a lot about pros of the past. Who are some of your favorite pros from the past?
Doug Brown.
What are your favorite skate videos?
Thrashin’. The serving platter handrail scene from Triple X.
How did you end up getting sponsored by 1031?
You noticed that I didn’t suck that bad, and you gave me a board because I’m cute.
Do you ever think you can get your own reality show, “The Life Of Ben”?
That would be very entertaining! I hope so; then maybe girls will like me.
Tell us about going to school barefoot.
Shoes are for posers.
Frontside air
You have a lot of fun with skateboarding, and you don’t pay much attention to mags and videos. You’re kind of in your own little Ben world. How do you feel about the current state of skateboarding? Everything from the mags, the pros, to the kids out on the streets. Do you feel like it’s gotten a little to pretentious? A little too serious?
Maybe a little of both, but I’m too punk to care.
Your band has a song called “Hot Topic, Get Out of Punk.” Why do you think they should get out of punk?
Because Old Navy is better.
Remember when you were staying at my house and I left to go somewhere, and you accidentally let my dog out the front door?
My neighbor later told me the story—you were chasing him all around the neighborhood. When I came home, why didn’t you ever tell me about it? You acted like nothing ever happened. Did you think I would have killed you?
I’m not that mean! I love your dog. Hi, Oscar.
Do I ask the worst questions ever?
No, you’re amazing.
Tell all the kiddies out there the companies that you proudly endorse with the utmost professionalism.
1031 skates, I-Path, Innes clothing, Indy trucks, and Landshark wheels.

---

by Schmitty
Dudes to go skate with?
Pat Burke, Matt Winterberg, Danny Marshall.
Food to eat?
I love Slurpees—aka a Slurtis. A bag of burgers, Mexican food.
Movies?
Hot Shots is the best. There's tons of bitchin' movies. I'll leave it at
Hot shots. Charlie Sheen.
Good things about living in Canada?
Totally awesome babe girls. Clean air and cheap.
Dudes on Zero to go on a trip with?
Brockman and Keegan, no doubt. Elissa! All for one and one for all.
Gnarliest things you've seen at Black Box?
Wiggins, after some burnouts, broke the window. Pat living day to day. The water fountain out front is pretty crazy.
Top 3 pick up lines?
Wanna make out? Nice boots, eh! It’s not a stain, it's peanut butter, baby.
Photo: Hammeke
Top 3 eyeball stories?
When I was a kid in elementary school, I lost my eye in the snow. I cried. Then my brother found it and wouldn’t give it back. Jerks, man! Chasing it around the kitchen floor at one of my first parties at the Zero house. Every time I turn and talk to someone, they look beside them as if there’s someone else there that I’m talking to. Figure it out!
Top 3 moments with The Chief?
Meeting him for the first time at skatecamp; totally awesome!
I was down in Carlsbad filming for New Blood and didn't have any money to eat. The Chief would give me money out of his pocket for the week. I got really sick at the Zero house—bed-ridden for days. No one seemed to care. So Jamie came over and made me soup and grilled cheese. Cured me! Fuckin’ rights, mon!
Tunes you’ve been rockin’?
Sabbath, Metallica, Bad Brains. All the hard shit.
Places in the world you've been through skateboarding?
Venezuela. China. Poland.
kickflip bs tailslide
Most stressful moments?
Getting tested. Hesitation. Chongos.
Hobbies outside skateboarding?
Burnin’ down stinkers. Mariokart 64. Ruin the English language.
Babes?
April O'Neil, Lois Griffin, and Sailor Venus.
People you'd like to give a shout to?
The good, the bad, and the ugly.

---

by the Messageboarders
What was your favorite deck graphic over the years?
Off the top of my head, I have to say the MMVI graphic. I have it tattooed on my right arm.
When did you start skateboarding, and why?
I started in 1990. The reason was because I saw these older kids skating down the street; they looked so cool. I wanted to do what they did. Once I got a board I couldn’t stop.
What type of offers have you received? Has Plan B tried to get you on their super team? How about Gatorade or Jeep?
Over the years I’ve had some crazy offers. The most recent was some guy with a crew cut came up to me while I was skating a ditch. He was walking his dog and asked if I was professional. Then he gave me his card, said, “I want to talk to you about riding for an organic energy drink, our views are very conservative, though. Do you feel you’re a good role model?” That was pretty much a no-go from the beginning. His card had his picture, an American flag, and “in God I trust” written at the bottom.
Who can beat you in SKATE?
A lot of people. I get beat by Jamie and Tom Asta all the time. Billy Marks beat me the other day, too.
What Bands suck?
Tons. It feels lame to say it, though, ’cause its someone’s whole life that you’re shitting on when you diss their music. But I will fire one off anyway. Creed, they blow.
How much has having a kid ruined your life?
Either this was written by a young dude—who hasn’t grown up yet—or a really selfish person. And don’t get all bummed ’cause I said that, but if you have a child and you’re unselfish, you will see that you give yourself to your child. You love your kid more than your wants. It doesn’t ruin your life; it provides more purpose.
50-50
Would you and Jamie Thomas ever get BFF tattoos?
Absolutely not! I’m sure he would say the same. He’s my homie but we don’t hold hands and cry together like this question would insinuate.
If ZERO went down, what other board company would you ride for?
I guess if they would take me, REAL, Toy Machine, Girl. Those are radical brands.
Do you smoke weed? Ever?
Unless its smoking tires, I don’t smoke. (Reference to
Joe Dirt
). I smoked when I was younger but not for very long and realized that it wasn’t the right thing for me. So I quit doing anything—weed, cigarettes, and drinking. I started drinking again when I knew I was old enough for it to be fine. Like 19 or something.
Tell us about your Enjoi days.
I really like enjoi. The brand is a breath of fresh air. I was on the East and detached from any team member so I was kind of a guy who rode the products, but not on the team. Especially ’cause they are a group of friends. I hung out with Marc Johnson a couple times. He was totally cool. I have always been a huge fan of his, so that was great.
What kind of porn do you like?
I’m not really a porn sort of dude, not to sound like a puss. But I don’t have subscriptions and know all sorts of sites and names. I’m really not down for disrespecting girls either. So choking and hitting are super lame to me. Doing it, to me, really doesn’t seem like it blends with punishing or treating someone like they’re a piece of shit.
What do you think about
Dyrdek’s Fantasy Factory
?
I seem to be really out of it, because I’ve heard of this but have no idea what it’s about.
What skaters influence you?
Christian Hosoi, Pepe Martinez, Jeremy Wray, Frankie Hill, Marc Johnson, Drake Jones, Pat Duffy, Eric Koston, Kareem Campbell, Daewon, Rodney Mullen, Reynolds, Mike Carroll, Lavar, Creager, AVE,J, Gilbert Crockett, Appleyard, Muska, James Hardy, Hotwax, Tom Asta, T-Guns, Garrett Hill, Nick Dompierre, Guy Mariano, John Cardiel, Johnny Romano, PJ Ladd.
What was your first board?
Toys“R”Us. It sucked, but it was the best thing in my life at that point. So thankful for that board. After that I had a used PowellR (one tail). Then a Vallely elephant, and then a board (I need help finding out what board this is) that had a tortoise and a hare. The turtle had wheels peeling out. My first new-school board was a Slick with a bunch of watermelons on it.
Do you ever play the video games you're in?
I had an Xbox 360 when the first SKATE game came out. I sucked at it but before I could even get my character open my son stood on the system and it never worked again. I returned it to Target. Now I just play Wii.
What was the hardest trick you filmed for
Ride the Sky
?
Lots were really hard and tried my patience but the fakie front blunt kickflip thing was the hardest to learn, I think. Just figuring it out, how it would look, how it would work, which way I was going when I landed, that was tough.
Pop shove-it nosegrind
How many times have you met Children of Bodom?
I’ve seen them eight or so times. I’ve hung out with them probably more ’cause I will see them play the show and hang out at a restaurant or a bar after. If they’re in town I’ll usually go kick it wherever.
Who is the best and worst person to tour with?
Best is Josh Harmony, worst is Josh Harmony. Reason being is that he’s such an awesome person and has such a good heart that it makes you happy to be around him but bummed that you’re such a dick.
You own tons of guitars. What’s your favorite and what kind of tunes are you blasting now?
My favorite guitar has to be the custom ripper Jackson Rhoads. But I feel I should mention my Vai Jem that was a gift from mark grey. My Marcus Henderson apparition epiphany. It plays so good and has a killswitch. My Alexi ESP (Japan) are all awesome. Right now I’ve been playing some Coheed and Cambria, Bodom as always, and a ton of acoustic stuff. Like “Love of a Lifetime” really full sounding music. Always, though, when you get a beat in your head and you just jam to it and lose yourself in the tune, that is always the best.
What do you like better, videos or demos?
I like them both equally. You need one to love the other. I hate just filming without going on tour for a year. I like meeting kids and trying to get people excited if possible. Kicking it live is really important. But without videos, what will someone watch after you leave town?
Did you back three LOVE twice?
Yes. Good eye. We went on a Sunday to film it fisheye, then felt maybe it would look better long lens. So to make the footage not seem too weird I wore the same stuff and went back the next Sunday to do it again. Funny enough, the big green thing I run into is a wooden present under a gigantic tree. People would come to take pictures of themselves with the LOVE sign and the tree all day. One go I ran into the present and put my legs through it, in front of all these people. I felt like a vandal/loser/ogre.
What is your favorite part out of all the parts you’ve filmed?
Ride the Sky
. Hands down.

---

Feeble pop-over. Photo Rhino
Posted: April 1st, 2009
Interview & Photos: Rhino
What do you think of Silas Baxter-Neal winning SOTY 2008?
A damn robbery. Only joking. Dude is the man; he’s been killing it for a while and everything he does just gets better and better, so congrats. Keep fucking shit up.
Did you make it up to the party in  San Francisco?
No, I didn’t. I was too lazy on my couch smoking blunts. I bet it was raging, though, with Phelper there. Oh yeah, Too $hort! It was definitely hyphy, shake them dreads.
Who else do you think was killing it in 2008 that had a good chance of getting it?
Mariano or Malto, for sure.
Which black man has won SOTY  in the past?
Fool, I don’t think there’s been a  black SOTY.
Correct answer. When is there going to be one and who might be the contender?
The BSOTY contenders would be  Devine Calloway, Kellen James, Karl Watson, Jeron Wilson, and Keenan Milton (RIP). Those are my contenders.
What video parts are you working on  at the moment?
The gangsta-ass Black Label video called God Save the Label. It should be illin’.
A lot of good videos came out in 2008, and some good ones will drop in 2009. Will the Label video be a gnarly one?
There should be some rad moves in  there. You know, the helicopter and all  that good stuff.
50-50
. Photo: Rhino
You recently got tattooed. What did  you get?
I got this Japanese Samurai skeleton holding a head, it’s sick. I’ve always been into that type of stuff. I got it from this dude Bill Canales in Ocean Beach, he did a great job.
Are you going to get sleeves?
You never know. I might dabble a little.  It feels good, but it depends.
Are you going to be covered like Antwuan Dixon in two years?
He got all thuggy with it. Fuck it. I don’t think I could get face tats. That’s raw.
If you had to get one of his tattoos, which one would it be?
How about Skate and Destroy?
I also hear you got a few dogs as of late. What kinds did you get?
I got a pit-lab brindle named Ciko, aka  Big Dummy, aka Shit Eater, and a Chihuahua-terrier mix named Shadoa, aka Lil’ Trick, aka Lil’ Bitch. They’re chilling, got to love ’em.
Have they ever pissed on your skateboard at your house?
No, don’t think. Maybe when I’m gone.  I recently bought this dog-sized stuffed animal from the swap meet so he could play with something that was his size. Me and  my chick bring it back home, and at first sight of the stuffed animal he goes up and starts sniffing it, checking it out, and then out of nowhere he jumps on the stuffed dog and starts humping the shit out of it for like 20 minutes. By the time my dog got done the whole damn stuffed animal was all juiced with dog juices. Shit got tore up. He had the best time of his life—but yeah—actually he did walk up and start pissing on my chick’s leg out of nowhere. That’s about all the pissing and humping for now.
Did you vote in the presidential  election this year?
No, I didn’t really bother. Don’t really  like to get into that type of shit.
What do you think of Obama winning?
Shit is crazy. Our president is black, holla! It’s history. We’ll see what happens—just get Bush the fuck out of there. Obama’s the main pimp now, bitch.
Crooks transfer
. Photo: Rhino
You’ve been pro for about a year now. What’s better about it compared to being an am?
No more sleeping on couches, more skating and smoking, more good times with the fellas, more traveling—more of everything. And just keep fucking shredding.
Do you have a say in board graphics over at Label?
I have say for graphics at Label.  John Lucero does a lot and so do a bunch of other dudes. I got a couple of drawings myself coming in the future, so got to love it.
What’s your favorite board graphic that you’ve had?
I like all of them. The 20 Years of Label collaborations are ill as fuck. If you haven’t seen them, check them out. Ed Templeton did a drawing for one of my boards that  I liked a lot, and I do appreciate it.
What kind of car are you driving?
A 2004 Nissan Altima, sitting on spokes.
Is that the first car you’ve ever owned?
That’s it besides my skateboard.
I hear you don’t even have your driver’s license. What’s up with that?
I never got it as a kid; too much shit was going on around that time for me and I never had any money, so I just never got it. It was just my skateboard and me, but I’ll be getting around to it soon.
When are you getting a shoe over  at Osiris? Have you been working on any designs?
It’s been talked about, so we’ll see. That would be crazy. I’d be hyped. I did a couple of colorways before, that was cool too.
What’s a typical day like for Shuriken when you aren’t traveling?
Wake up, take a leak, then go sit on my couch, roll up a good morning blunt. Smoke it, eat some Cocoa Puffs, go take a shower, then hit up some heads to go skate the streets of Diego. Then I roll a warm-up blunt, smoke that one too, go roll, then I’ll come back to my pad and roll up some more goods and kick it with the chick. I’ll end up drawing or painting or doing some random shit somewhere, and start it up again in the morning.
Kickflip
. Photo: Rhino
Do you seem to get more stuff done when you’re on a skate trip or at home?
More stuff gets done on trips because I’m always on a constant go, and I’ll go to a spot that I’ve never been to before and want to skate it. As for back at home, I’ve seen and skated it all—I can go to spots at home whenever. As for spots on the road, you never know when you’re going to go back  to them.
Favorite skate spot in San Diego?
Any red curbs, and Patrick Henry  High School.
I hear King of the Road is on again in 2009. If you get picked, are you going  on the two-week mission?
Only if Phelps is in the van with his skateboard and a 30-pack of brew and some apples to throw. It’ll be all good.
Has the Aggro Negro calmed down  a bit?
The Aggro Negro is chilling. Everybody’s got the aggroness. Let that shit roar, son.

---

Part one of a two-part interview with Foundation pro, Corey Duffel

---

Part 2 of the Duff Man interview from his home answering questions from our messageboard.

---

"I just skated ’cause I liked fuckin’ doing it."
Interview by Jake Phelps
What are you up to, Omar?
I’ve been skating every day, and I just finished filming
for the Workshop video.
It’s done? For real?
My part’s done. I could keep going, but I got the red light to stop from Greg. If it was my choice, I’d keep going.
Who’s got the best part? Dylan Reider?
That’s funny. It’s hard to say. Probably Heath. Heath is just extremely gnarly.
Everybody waited for Guy Mariano—people may not be thinking about waiting for Heath in that way, but he goes for it.
He goes for it for sure.
When’s the video going to be out?
There’s 31 days until it has to be out. So the beginning of February.
Quick up to front board, Sequence: Zaslavsky
What do you think about Silas being SOTY?
I’m so stoked, man. You picked a perfect SOTY—an epic choice again.
What’s coming up in 2009?
Skating and travelling, having a good time. I want to skate where I want to skate and not be dragged around on tours all the time. That shit’s fun, but this year I just want to go on trips that I organize.
Me and Brian Anderson were talking last night about ’round the world, baby. We’re going.
That’s what I’m saying! That’s the shit I want to do. I’d be stoked to get that going. I want to work on getting better with my skating.
Getting better with your skating? You’re already pretty good.
I just want to keep it going and not slow down.
What’s the gnarliest thing you’ve ever done?
Maybe this hippy hop I did in Australia. I was with Dustin Dollin and all these fuckers—it was for the Nike video. Dustin said, “You can’t fuckin’ do it! It’s gnarly; it’s impossible!” And I said, “Nah, I can fuckin’ do it.” He had these Ray Bans that I really wanted—these cheapy fake ones—but the whole time I was saying, “Dude, let me have your glasses!” So we went to this spot and Dustin said, “Why don’t you hippy hop this thing?” I said, “Will you give me those glasses if I do it?” He thought I couldn’t do it. It was pretty hard. He left to get some booze and when he came back I said, “What’s up with those glasses?” He didn’t believe me; he had to check the footage. That was probably the hardest thing I’ve done.
You made it.
I fuckin’ buried it.
Backside lipslide, Photo: Brook
So you got on Foundation, and then you got kicked off…
Fuck those dudes! Just kidding. Those kids who ride for them are super cool.
Angel’s bad as fuck. I like Angel. He’s my favorite.
Yeah. He’s a dirtbag. I like him. But I never had any love for that dude Swank.
People tell you, “You gotta get more street.” And you’re like, “Look fucker, I skate every day. Do you understand that?”
That shit almost fucked me up when I was little. I didn’t have anyone who really supported my skating—as far as my parents, because they didn’t really understand it.  I would send dudes footage of me grinding ledges into the dirt. You know that gnarly front board that Cardiel does off that ledge and then comes out over the dirt gap? When I was little, I’d send in footage of me doing a 50-50 and then riding down the dirt. I’d send them shit of me ollieing into trash cans and coming out with trash on my feet. I thought it was cool, but they’d be like, “Yeah…uh…do you think you could do handrail tricks like Smith grinds or feebles?” I didn’t know the whole industry side. I just skated ’cause I liked fuckin’ doing it.
I was talking to Brian—did you get that back lip?
No, I went for it dude. I’m gonna do it. I’ve been hustling, trying to get as much as I can because I want my video part to be good, and I fuckin’ went for that shit and for some reason my legs weren’t working. I was trying to get them working—there was one where I went up for a back lip but my truck went to a back Smith instead. It hucked me forward and my body was done.
Who’s the best skater in Sac?
Cardiel. Biebel. Stefan.
You have an older brother? He skates too?
No, he doesn’t. He’s into skating, but…
He sees the kinda cheddar you’re making, he oughtta think about it.
Nah. He’s cool. He’s hella been supportive of me.
Your parents are pretty proud of you now?
Yeah. It’s crazy. My mom was always into me skating when I was little, but my dad was always like, “What is this shit?” My parents come from Chile, and their whole idea of coming to America—for their kids—revolved around going to school. And I was always really shitty at school, but I loved skating. My parents thought I was wasting my time, thinking I had to be going to school, working for a good company, but I was like, “Nah, I’m having fun doing it, people are giving me free shit, I think I’m doing alright.” Now I get to help my mom out. She’s hella happy. My mom’s super rad. I think I’m making her proud.
Best place you’ve been on the road?
China was sick.
That trip was awesome. Ten degrees below zero.
It was cold, but it was fun. Going up in the tower.
Ollie, Sequence: Antton
Smoking hash in China! On the top floor, Shanghai Nights, baby.
And those cute little karaoke chicks singing to us?
Oh god. Don’t even go there.
That was fun. We had a good crew.
That’s what I’m saying. You get a good crew and anything can happen. So besides going around the world this year, what else do you have going on?
We’re doing a video for Analog.
Analog? You are hooked up. You must be making cheddar. How old are you? Twenty-two?
I’m 25 dude!
You got years, baby. Your 30s are your best. Be thankful you don’t have a name like Torey Pudwill and you’ll be alright.
I gotta tell you, my favorite nickname is the one you gave me.
O-Zar rules!
I fuckin’ love it dude. It’s sick.
It’s J-Lo, but it’s O-Zar. But yeah, Shanghai was banging. Brian’s three-flip wallride? Damn. The only thing that sucked was that motherfuckin’ Chet. Did you go on the Indy trip?
Yeah. Sketchy Chet. He was around. It was funny watching him and Omar Hassan going at it—they’re both like brothers, talking shit to each other.
Because they both have no brains.  What’s your favorite country for skating? Australia?
Ohh… Australia’s sick. I’m going to Chile in a couple days.
Chile? Valparaiso, that’s the spot.  Right by the beach.
Yeah! It’s like SF, but hella hot.
Alright Omar, you keep skating. You’re one of my faves so you keep on the ball homie. Like I said, I’m gonna work with Brian on getting this trip figured out, so we’re on.
Hey, thanks Phelps. I really appreciate that. Let’s do it. I’m there.

---

by Schmitty
As most of you should know, Mike Mo Capaldi
battled the Berrics game of SKATE for the last few months and came away with the victory over Benny Fairfax, giving him the title and $10,000. I hit him up for a little web exclusive look-back and got a few questions answered.
Top three match ups of the entire battle?
PJ versus Benny, Carroll versus Koston, and MJ versus Chris Roberts and Legion of Doom.
Top three dudes you're glad you didn't have to face.
PJ, Koston, and Joey Brezinski.
Top three things you'd like to do with the 10 grand?
Honestly, I don't know what to do with it. I guess just keep saving for a house.
Do you feel any additional pressure skating in front of your bosses on a regular basis and in comps like Battle at the Berrics?
I use to be really nervous to skate in front of all the Girl dudes, and in front of a crowd. It depends on the obstacle I'm skating, I guess. If it's tranny or a handrail, I'll feel like there’s more pressure because I don't know what I'm doing. It's kind of fun to deal with the pressure, though, in front of a crowd. When I was younger I couldn't even get in front of my class to do a presentation. I guess I just prove to myself it's a sign of maturity to go do something like that.
I see you listed your age as 18 and included beer as one of your interests.  What kind of beer do 18 year olds consume these days?
Where does it say that? MyBerrics? I shouldn't have put that; Berra’s probably so bummed on that. I need to take that off. But I like Coors or Bud Light, no Heineken, though. Anything besides that.
You're from Simi Valley. What’s your take on Skatelab going all Walmart on us?
I think it's smart of them. They get to remake the park because of it. Make it way better than it is now. They can sell out all they want; it's just going to give me and my friends a way better place to skate now.
Did you know there was money on the line from the start, and if not, what did it feel like to go from playing for fun to 10 large?
Berra actually told me in the beginning that there was going to be money, I wasn't sure how much, though. I pretty much ignored the money part, because if I came in fourth I still would have gotten like two grand. Just for playing skate you get two G’s? I'll take it.
Mike Mo with a fakie tré excerpted from our November 2008 issue. Photo: Colen

---

by Jake Phelps
Why were you in prison?
For stealing and for drugs. I was a heroin addict. Pelican Bay. One of the gnarliest prisons in the US.
It’s not SuperMax though.
Yeah it is. It’s gnarlier than Corcoran, all those. Even though San Quentin’s got Death Row, that’s nothing. The gnarliest dudes in the US go to Pelican Bay.
What made you decide to stop skating and start doing junk?
I just got caught up. I got injured and started shooting heroin, and it took over. That high was such a great feeling that it took over.
Let me run through your sponsor history. You got kicked off Santa Cruz.
Kendall and Denike wanted me to be a street skater. They put me in a little office and told me I had to dress a certain way and have an all street skating video part. And then a week later they ended up kicking me off over the phone. Then I went to Focus. Christian Hosoi asked me to ride for him.
That must have been an honor.
Definitely. Christian Hosoi is the gnarliest.
Then Christian crashed out.
Crashed hard. And then it was Consolidated. Jason Jessee and the Paez brothers; that’s why I wanted to ride for ’em. And then they found out I was hanging out with Julien and Cardiel and all you guys—I was bound to quit Consolidated anyway. Anti-Hero was a better fit for me.
What was the best trip you ever went on with the boys?
Come on—you know that one. Australia. We’ve been on so many Hell Rides, but Australia was a great one. Drink fight and fuck. Rumble in the streets. That dude knocked you out—I was like, “Un-uh. I ain’t havin’ that.” So I creeped up behind him and popped him in his ears. And it was chaos from there on. Hell Ride cartel forever.
And then you got kicked off Anti-Hero? What happened?
That’s when I started getting strung out. I hurt my foot skating the ramp at that Graphix warehouse. I was hanging out in Santa Cruz with some of my buddies, and they said, “Try this.” I was like, “Alright, my foot hurts, but this feels great.” Next thing you know, I’m hooked. And then I’m flaking out on travelling. I was embarrassed, because I’m feeling fucked up, in the gutter.
Frontside invert. Photo: Zaslavsky
What was your nickname in jail?
Spider.
You did a year?
Two years. This was my first Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Years all together in six years. Every October I get arrested.
What’d you get for Christmas?
My freedom. Skateboarding.
Are you happy to be back on board?
Fuck yeah. Believe that. You can’t get rid of me now.
I know I could never get rid of you Andy. Remember where we first met?
Kennedy warehouse?
Glory Hole.
That’s right! I have a question. I read an interview with…Lizard King? What’s up, fool? You heckled that dude. See, that’s why I want to get back out there. To show these guys the rawness of skateboarding.
Skateboarding ain’t about good things. It’s about bad things.
Exactly. Exactly.
What happened in Vegas?
When I bought the brass knuckles? We saw Slayer and DI two days in a row. I saw this guy selling some brass knuckles. I was like, “Come on Jake, give me some money. Give me some money.” I went straight to the pit, and next thing you know I’m getting carried out on a stretcher. Paramedics had to come pick me up.
I do remember that. It was me, you, Ruben, and Joey. Rasta Joe.
Oh man. Bob Gnarly. Wow. I just saw him the other day in Ripon. I was like, “Is that hair in your hat?”
So you’re out now, and you’re doing skateboard lessons?
I give skateboard lessons. I got married to my wife, Erin Roy. I’ve been skating with Wade everyday, or every other day. As much as he can skate, I’ll go skate with him. He’s gotta work too.
Who do you get boards from?
Anti-Hero. From Julien and Jim Thiebaud. I want back on the team. If I gotta fight everybody to get back on, I’m ready. Let me earn it. I got Anti-Hero pride. Those are the dudes I wanna be around.
I just got back from Brazil and I saw a kid who skates just like Bob.
Bob’s 100 sponsors, it doesn’t matter. He’s still gnarly.
He does 20-foot frontside ollies.
How can you fuck with that?
You can’t fuck with that. He skates for Right Guard though.
At least he smells good.
Tell me a good Alan Petersen story.
There was the time in Wisconsin, when little Richard Paez and Karma were hiding in the van while Alan snuck a girl in there, tryin’ to get some, telling her he’ll get her some pink Pumas. He got her pants off and little Richard and Karma start laughing. She freaks out, and Alan loses it because he ain’t gonna get some. “This could have been the one! This could have been the one!” He hucks a bottle at Karma, Karma ducks, and Alan’s all, “I’m outta here. I’m leaving this tour.” So I said, “Alright, can I have your skateboard?” That was 30 bucks, a case of beer right there. Later, Alan. But he got to the corner and decided he didn’t know where the fuck he was and came back.
What do you miss the most about the old days?
The travelling was the best, Jake. We destroyed everything that got in our way. Rip ride.
No doubt about that. Do you think the kids know what that means now?
No. Skating’s so soft now. Kids only skate if they got a camera. I’m glad we had the time when we did. There’s nothin’ better than when we had it. These guys making their money and dressing nice, that don’t even compare to the rip riding we did, sleeping in our sleeping bags at the skatepark, drinking beer, BBQing—there’s no money that could equal that.
What’s your advice for all the little kids out there who skate but might be getting into some weird shit?
If you wanna play, you’re gonna have to pay. And believe me, those dudes in prison are no joke. There’s stabbin’ and stickin’ and all that. So if you’re ready to get high and have fun and think it’s a good old time, wait ’til you get locked up, ’cause that’s where the big boys are. I’m tellin’ you. I’ve seen people get stabbed over 20-cent Top Ramen. Dude borrowed one, didn’t pay it back on time, and got stabbed. In the stomach. Witnessed it.
How many guys are on the hit list now?
We had… We had Kendall, Jason Adams—I took care of him. He’s nothing now. He’s just a little redneck wannabe Johnny Cash dude. He’s done with. Flatliner. We got Sheckler, Dyrdek—that Lizard King kinda bugs me. There’s a bunch of phonies out there. I’ve been doin’ my homework, reading through these magazines, and I’m gonna start writing them down. Deciding who needs to get knocked out. I got to. Skating means too much to me. I got 30 days left of parole and then I’m done.
Last words?
Victory is not possible without facing danger. It’s better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.

---

by The Messageboarders
Alex, what was the best industry advice your pops gave you when it was apparent you’d be skating for a living?
“Make sure you don’t get ripped off.”
Since you’re more of an “in the moment” type of guy, what’s your take on Reality TV? Would you ever consider participating in one of those shows?
Sure, why not?
When did you stop being Alex Parker (the Toy Machine and Baker kid) and start being Alex Olson (the care-free, bad boy mix between Julien Stranger and Stereo-era Ethan Fowler) ?
I wouldn’t go so far as to say I’m a bad boy. I stopped being Alex Parker ’cause I just got called Olson.
Explain a typical day in the life of Jason Dill when you were staying with him in NY.
Go to the diner to get a grilled cheese, fries, and a coffee. Then he’d get on the MySpace and clock in a good six to seven hours on it. So it would get dark, then he’d go eat again and walk over to the hole and spend the whole night there. Wake up and do it all over again.
When you see a speedy Olson coming out of a back smith, you best get the fuck out the way. Photo: Colen
Last song you remember hearing on your personal listening device?
Some electronic shit.
Worst part about LA?
Fake people.
Best part about NY?
Food and girls.
Compare the Beauty and the Beast tour to the Indy tour.
There will be another Indy trip, and there won’t be another Anti-Hero/Girl trip.
Varial flip in the ditch... Got it! Seq: Colen
How did you end up skating to King Diamond? Awesome pick!
I talked to my friend about it before I even got on Lakai, about how no one has really used him. I’m also a big fan, so two and two went together.
What’s the story with you and the Olsen twins?
There isn’t a story; she’s my boo and that’s it! Just fucking around. I don’t really know her.
How much time do you spend on the Internet? Favorite sites?
That’s easy—it’s a music blog site called Hypem.com.
Do you read comments? What do you think of messageboards and comments in general?
Lies…
Alex snaps a healthy ollie into the street. Photo: Colen
Facebook or MySpace?
Facebook. MySpace is out, but it’s still good for music.
If you were going to be stuck on an island for six months, who’s the Girl team rider you would want along to ease your way through, and who would  you want along to torture?
BA, ’cause the dude wouldn’t care and he was a line cook. Carroll to torture, but he doesn’t care.
After completing your first full part in a skateboard video, what did you learn from it and what would you do differently the second time around?
It’s fucking a lot of work, and if you don’t put your all into it you’ll end up hating what you put out—or just wish you had tried harder.
How about a big ol' backside ollie? Photo: Colen
Has filming started for the next Chocolate video?
I guess the monster is coming.
Who has the best style in skateboarding? If that’s too hard, give a top 5.
Gino, Gonz, Julien, Phil Shao, AVE, Oster, Hosoi, BA, Cardiel, Kenny Anderson, Carroll, Sheffey, Drehobl, Heath…and the list keeps going.
List your sponsors, and tell us what motivates you to ride for each company.
Girl, because everybody respects them. Vans, because they’re the first skate shoe company. Quiksilver; I like surfing and respect the whole surf team. Spitfire, because all the other wheels I don’t like. And Indy—everybody knows why.

---

Andrew Allen Top 3's
by Schmitty
Things about SJC:
The swallows, close to the beach, ballpark.
Filming for Mind Bong:
The intro, RHCP skit, Gorman’s house.
Beauties:
Moves, Altitude, Sunrise.
Switch backside 180. Photo: Hammeke
Beasts:
Chef Calamine, Bright Shadow, Moonbeam.
Filmers:
Captain Contraption, ODK, long hair and a beard?
About traveling with AH:
The crew, camping, getting to watch amazing skating.
About traveling with Vans:
MC Moneybump, My little Angel, Israel.
Blunt kickflip.
Photo: Hammeke
Things about Cardiel:
Nine pumps of chai, “Wow,” his constant energy.
Places to surf:
Boneyards, Four Doors, Bells.
Vans shoes:
Old Schools, Half-Cabs, Eras.
Video parts:
Emmanuel Guzman Guarte, AVE Photosynthesis, Gerwer Cash Money Vagrant.
Back tail. Photo: Hammeke
Movies:
Shawshank Redemption, Gran Torino, Leaving Las Vegas.
Bands:
Happy Mondays, Nickatina, The Clash.
Hobbies outside of skateboarding:
Whitewater rafting, rhythmic gymnastics, knitting.
Brews:
Stella, Tecate, Coors.
Kickflip 180 nosegrind
SoCal bros:
The Horse, Curly, BH.
Babes:
Kristen Stewart, Kate Beckinsale, Mila Kunis.
Stylish skaters:
Gino Iannucci, Max Schaaf, Van Wastell.
Skateparks:
Santa Ana, Wilmington, HB (rip).
Ways to deal with Gerwer:
Earplugs, black tea, put him in a dress.
Switch heel. Photo: Hammeke
Moments of Beauty and the Beast tour:
Chris James, Moose’s house, Portland.
Cities traveled to:
Havanah, Tel Aviv, Barcelona.
People you’d like to give a shout out to:
Vans, Deluxe, family.

---

Posted: January 20th, 2010
Devin Appelo Interview
"...my hernia hurts all the time."
Words & photos by Rhino
Devin, how old are you  and where are you from?
I’m 22, and I was born in Palm Springs, CA, but I moved to Oregon when I was two so I consider myself an Oregonian.
How’d you get into skateboarding?
I had an older friend that skated next door, and I asked my parents to buy me a board for my 10th birthday.
Do you remember what kind of board  it was?
It was a shitty Nash board.
Who were some of your favorite skaters when you started shredding?
Just my older friends, and the older dudes  at the park. I never watched skate videos when I began skating.
Who was the first pro you saw skate  in person?
It was Nate Sherwood at the Vancouver skatepark in Washington. That was funny  to watch.
What about these days?  Who inspires you?
Al Partanen, because he’s fucking almost 40 and he skates harder than anyone else out there. Geoff Rowley and Bob Burnquist, because they’re ripping and they’re older, too. And all the dudes on Creature, because they’re so much better than me.
Bob’s part in the new Flip vid is ridiculous. Have you ever thought about skating the Mega?
Lizard King jumped that shit.
I really don’t understand how he does that. I’ve thought about it, but it just isn’t for me. Lizard King has health insurance.
What was your first photo in
Thrasher
?
A Photo-G picture that Hammeke took.  He wrote his alias for the credit because he didn’t want anybody to know. After that I got  a Lunatic Fringe.
Downtown Portland 5-0. Got crack? Photo: Ray
When did you meet Gravette?
I met David when he was 16, through my old shoe sponsor, Duffs. It was at a contest at an indoor park in Portland; we were both hyped on each other’s skating so we became friends.
He’s always been a bit absent-minded, but is he getting worse? Maybe it’s the spliff life that he’s leading.
I would say too much weed, too much traveling, and not letting himself heal.
I always tell him to take a vacation and relax, but he can’t do it. I’m sure the pressure of filming a video part or two at the same time can be overwhelming. You’ve also been filming for two videos, the Thrasher video and for Creature. Has that taken a toll on your body and mind?
My body is fucked. My heels are bruised, my knee and my hip are swollen, and my hernia hurts all the time.
These will be your first video parts.  How do you think you’ve done?
I’ve done the best I can do; I think it’s good, so I hope everyone likes it as well.
Which part’s going to be better, Creature or
Thrasher
?
My Creature part has mostly older footage, and my Thrasher part is mostly this past year. They’re both going to be rad.
What about Gravette’s part?
His
Thrasher
part is going to be good,  but I haven’t seen much of his Creature part. I’m sure they’ll both turn out gnarly as hell.
Are you going to chill for a bit after the videos drop?
I’ll probably chill for a few months and then get back to it. It all depends on if I need to get a real job or not.
You tend to tackle some big gaps. What’s the gnarliest thing you tried for an ender that didn’t work out for either part?
The gnarliest thing I tried to get for an ender would have to be an ollie over the Clipper hubba for the Thrasher part. We went there around noon, and we had to bondo a lot of big cracks at the top so I could skate it. P-Stone went to get me some beer for breakfast, for a bit of confidence. The first attempt wasn’t too successful. I landed on my heel and bruised it pretty badly. I ran back up and tried it again, stuck it, and slammed. Someone offered me $1,000 dollars if I landed it on the next try; stuck it and slammed again. My heel was too fucked to try it another time after that.
Varial heel? Go big or go home. Photo: Ray
Got plans to go back and get that shit?
I’ll probably try it again for another part, when I’m not so beat up.
Would you have given the Leap of Faith a go if it was still skateable?
I probably would try it, but that one doesn’t look too doable. It’s fucking gnarly.
What about the set of stairs that Phelps put on the Web, with $1,000 to the first person to ollie and document it?
I went there, and there’s no way it’s doable without a tow-in from a car or something.  It’s just too long. But I’d try for shits if he  put up $10,000.
What’s the worst injury you’ve had  to date?
I shattered my elbow on a stupid five-foot quarterpipe when I was 17. I had to get a seven-inch rod put in my arm. Having a  hernia sucked, too.
How’d you get a hernia?
Probably from not stretching. Or it could have been from lifting at my old construction job.
You’re in Portland now. What are the good and bad aspects of living there?
There’s nothing bad about Portland. Everywhere else sucks compared to it. Beer’s cheap, food’s cheap, and there’s so much shit to do all the time.
Why Portland instead of San Francisco?
Because SF is too fucking expensive.
What about the hippies, the homeless, and the high rate of unemployment?
I love it, hippies and all. I don’t like to work so I don’t care about the high rate of unemployment, and people who can’t get a job because of the unemployment crisis are fucking stupid.
Does skateboarding pay the bills?
I don’t work. I get a little money from  skating, but I have to sell lots of my boards  to make rent. I have a food card now, so that’s how I eat.
It's real easy to break your collarbone doin' shit like this
Maybe after the two videos drop  your checks will get bigger.
Checks? That “s” on the end would be  a nice addition.
Did you finish high school?
Hell no! I didn’t really get along with  the teachers.
If you had to work, what might you  do to support yourself?
I’d be a bartender, most likely.
Who drove the car into Burnside  and flipped it?
I think it was Andy 540. Not too sure.  I didn’t even know about it ’til I saw it on the Thrasher website.
Have you ever gotten vibed at Burnside by any of the locals?
When I was younger, but not too  much anymore.
Sausy stair master
What’s the gnarliest thing you’ve seen  go down at Burnside?
When Germ beat the shit out of this bum, pushing him backwards down the trannies. The guy landed straight on his dome. His  head was split wide open. I booked it after that. I didn’t want to stay around; the dude looked dead to me.
That’s a gnarly one. What about the gnarliest skating there?
I would have to say Choppy Omega,  Red, or Little Jon. They try things that  don’t look possible—and make it.
Last year, your brother got beat up pretty badly. What happened?
I wasn’t with them. My brother, Taylor, was with our friend Clay. I got a call from Clay at four in the morning saying, “I think your brother’s dead.” I guess some UFC Chads walked up to them, telling them to stop smoking crack. My brother and Clay told them they were waiting for the train. The Chads wouldn’t leave them alone; they kept saying that they were looking for a fight. They started pushing them around so my brother hit one of them in the head with his board. They were eventually over-powered by the four Chads, and Taylor was beat with his own board half to death.
360 flip under, high jump over
Didn’t they have some surveillance camera in the area, or witnesses?
They had surveillance cameras, but they were too shitty to tell what the hell was going on. And there were no witnesses at all.
How old is your brother?
Twenty. He got all of his surgery done, and he’s got himself a fake grill now. He just drew Gravette’s new graphic, and he’s getting some of the money from every board sold to help pay for his medical bills. So buy that shit to help him out.
You’ve hosted some fundraisers for him, too. How’d they turn out?
They turned out well. I raised enough money for his fake teeth, but he’s still $90,000 in debt.
How is he going to pay that much money back for his hospital bills?
He will never be able to pay it off; he has  to file for bankruptcy.
Do you ever skate contests?
I hate contests. There’s no point unless your sponsor wants you to. Anything else is pretty much just showing off.
Rocky Norton is still out there, bro. 50-50 to elevator drop. Sequence: Ray
What about the X-Games or Dew Tours? If you were invited, would you go?
I’d go if they paid me some money, but I definitely wouldn’t want to skate the contest.
Everyone on Creature has at least four tattoos. What’s the deal? Why don’t  you have any?
Because I’ll never be able to afford a tattoo.
I guess you don’t get as drunk as Gravette or Silent Mike and have late-night tattoo parties.
I get as drunk, I just don’t want to share tattoo needles. And if that’s what it takes to get a free tattoo, then fuck it. I’d rather not get one.
Who has more, Silent Mike or Heddings?
I’d have to say Silent Heddings.
Who’s your pick for SOTY this year?
Taylor Bingaman.
What about COTY, Creature of the Year?
Taylor, again.

---

P﻿osted: October 20, 2008
Silas Baxter Neal's Top 3's
Ways to start the day?
Good cup of coffee, bottle of beer, walk the doggy.
Places you want to go?
Skatopia, Yosemite, Ireland.
Dudes to travel with?
Nick the lesbian, Stefan, Kip the wonder dog.
Skate videos?
Welcome To Hell, Lost And Found, Fucktards.
Skateparks?
Rosa, Derby, Amazon ashtray.
Mach-three tre-flip. Photo: Dan Z.
Beers?
Racer 5, Stella, Pabst.
Bands or music to listen to?
Jefferson Airplane, The Black Keys, Kris Kristofferson.
Movies?
King of Kong: Fist Full of Quarters, Amores Perros, Harold and Maude.
Lets just say Silas has back tails on lock. Photo: Goto
Prized possessions?
Skateboard, wedding ring, photo collection.
Best things about Oregon?
The people, the skateparks, the rain.
Things to do when not skating?
Fish, hike, camp.
A lengthy back lip for SBN. Photo: Goto
Things to have a meltdown over?
My phone ringing, kids at the skatepark, thinking of my future.
Candidates for SOTY?
Lizard, Freddy Gall, Dennis Busenitz.
Ways to end the day?
Beer, movie, sushi.

---

Epicly Trailer'd-An Interview with Patrick O'Dell
by Schmitty
FIrst of all, how old is Epicly Later’d, the blog site? How did that begin and where did the name come from?
It’s a year older than Epicly Trife. The name came from Newport, Rhode Island. I hope the bros there arn’t mad I geeked the lingo.
How did you get hooked up with Vice and VBS?
They asked me to be the photo editor of Vice after I stopped shooting skate photos. Then they started VBS and asked me to do a skate show.
How has Spike helped or influenced?
We bro down on the phone from time to time. But he has always been my favorite skate photographer and skate filmer. I grew up looking at his skateboard stuff.
What are some things you have learned or gotten better at since you’ve started?
We added more staff: Chris Grosso, Lauren Cynmon, and Kelly Hudson. They do almost everything. And I guess we figured out our direction.
Did the Cardiel epic response make you nervous that you may have pushed the bar too high to make new ones?
Not really. Cardiel is amazing, but there is so much to tell in the history of skateboarding, and John’s story is just one of them.
Who is someone you haven’t done that you would like to?
Lennie Kirk, Kareem Campbell, Ocean Howell, Antwaun Dixon, Matt Hensley, Natas…there are so many.
When telling someone’s story, do you ever think about a line that you shouldn’t cross or dig too deep in one’s personal?
Yeah, I usually don’t put anything in there that the skater doesn’t want. I can think of a few lines we didn’t cross in some of the episodes that are out.
How much preperation goes into interviewing someone? Or do you just shoot the shit until you feel you’ve gotten enough?
I usually rewatch all their parts on YouTube. Then, yeah, we shoot the shit. Its funny though, I have a huge skate video blind spot for the years after 2002. I guess when you are young everything is so major, and then you get older and it’s hard to care about the new guys.
How much do you pay attention to messageboards and comments to your episodes?
I read them sometimes. I like hearing what people think, but I try not to let it cloud my judgement too much. I mean, in the very beginning, it bummed me out how negative and judgemental people were, but then I think about all the people I admire and respect that get shitted on everyday. So learned you’ve got to have thick skin and stick to your guns.
Which episode this new season will be closest to the magnitude of the Cardiel episodes?
It isn’t filmed all the way, but I am hoping for a huge Lance Mountain episode to cap the whole thing off. Maybe a Doug Brown episode?
Here is the trailer for the upcoming episodes  of Ethan Fowler.

---

Posted: September 26th, 2008
"I suck at contests."
Photos: Shigeo | Interview: Sinclair
Who has the craziest part in Ride The Sky?
I'm going to say Slash. He's fucking gnarly.
What's new with Toy Machine?
We’re trying to find some new ams, and we’re going start a new Toy Machine video after the Fallen video is over.
What board do you ride?
Any eight-inch Toy Machine.
How did you get eliminated in the Es game of skate, come back the next day, and end up finishing 4th?
I don't know. Probably because I was wasted.
How much money have you won this month in contests?
Not a lot. I suck at contests.
How much have you lost?
Lost? You can lose money at contests?  I've seen it happen.
When was the last time you were in a tanning bed?
Yesterday. It was for my Thrasher interview.
What's the last thing you put on eBay?
Hockey cards.
Nothing feeble about owning a tanning bed. Photo:Chami (excerpted from October 2008 issue)
Remember when I caught you selling all of your Fallens on eBay and you claimed you didn't know who it was?
I didn't sell no fucking shoes on eBay. You might want talk to Brian Young about doing that shit. Wait… When was the last time you put shoes on eBay?
Talk to Murphy. Tell the kids out there something they don't know about being a professional skateboarder.
It's hard God damn work.
Tell the kids something about each of the Toy Machine riders that they might not know    : Ed Templeton.
Sketchier than me.
Diego Bucchieri.
Will kill anyone.
Johnny Layton.
Has a warrant for his arrest.
Josh Harmony.
Probably the nicest dude you'd ever meet until he pushes you over a table because he thinks you’re trying to cut in front of him in line.
Austin Stephens.
Doesn't talk much, jumps off tall-ass bridges.
Nick Trapasso.
Just turned pro and has the best part in the Transworld video.
Matt Bennett.
I think he's losing his mind, but he's still tight.
This gap to nosegrind is almost as big as the gap between what Billy earns and what he spends. Photo: Shigeo (excerpted from October 2008 issue)
Fill-in-the-blank part of the interview starts now. If I had a million bucks I would be:
In debt.
I usually:
Get drunk…
At the casino before I:
Lose everything I have
Never split a pair of:
Nines and above.
In the future I will be:
Broke…
But my girl will be:
Rich as fuck.
I never:
Eat…
In the morning because it fucks with my:
Ability to rip.
When I check my account balance I:
Cry.
I love the taste of:
Beer   .
Skateboarding ruined:
Ryan Sheckler.

---

8
David Gravette's Top 3's
by Schmitty
Candidates for SOTY 2008?
Devin Appelo, Taylor Bingaman, and Silent Mike, currently known as Sleegs.
Places you want to go?
Nebraska, South Africa, Hell.
Creature dudes to travel with?
I cant pick three.
Photo: Hammeke
Skaters not on Creature?
Vince Devalle.
Skateparks?
Issaquah, Tigard—I’ve had some times at Skate Barn, too.
Worst nicknames you’ve been given?
Those don't really bother me. Josh Perkins calls me Gershwiggler.
Gnarliest rails you've skated?
Issaquah rail kills all!
Crooked grind. Photo: Hammeke
Top three things about smoking weed?
It's something I’m truly interested in. Since I spend most of my time hurt, watching people skate, I’d lose my mind if it wasn’t for weed. Smoking a spliff and blasting some jams makes me want to skate more than anything else.
Ways to piss off Hammeke?
Prove him wrong. Complain… Hammeke loves to complain about me complaining. Stab him in the face with a sword.
Navarrette quotes?
"Did I say 33? I meant 24."  "Kid, let me borrow $300; I’ll pay you back as soon as we get to the airport in the states.” (Two years ago—still owes me $200). "This ain't the Navy. We'll leave somebody behind."
Flip tricks?
Pressure, casper, banana.
Photo: Hammeke
Breakfast items?
Breakfast sandwich homemade—nothing else.
Things to have a meltdown over?
A shitty filter that causes me to fuck up twisting. No ketchup with breakfast sandwiches; that means you, "Starbuck’s." Eating shit on basically nothing.
Things being pro will do for your life?
More responsibility, bigger bank account, probably my own video game and TV show.

---

Ryan "Peabody" McWhirter
by John Alden
Let everyone know what your real name is.
Ryan McWhirter.
Who’s got your vote for this year’s SOTY?
Ramondetta.
You’ve been on the road non-stop all summer: Skate Rock, Beauty and the Beast, Indy tour… I heard you even jumped in the Habitat van for a week or so. Are you actually going to spend some time at home now? Where is home, anyway?
San Francisco. I’m leavin’ again tomorrow, but I hope to be hanging around here after that.
Frontside Smith grind at Ray's on the Skate Rock tour.
Photo: Hammeke
What’s the gnarliest thing you saw on the Skate Rock Tour?
Dog Boy taking out that kid right next to me at the Sac park.
How was it being on the road and camping with the Girl team?
It was a good time for sure—no bullshit, just skating, camping, other good stuff.
Reno's seen plenty of disasters, but few like this low-to-high. Photo: Hammeke
Who was the MVP skater on the Beauty and the Beast?
Rick McCrank skated everything.
MVP partier?
Mike Mo—Mike Carroll and T-Mo combined into one—take the cake for most valuable partier.
How did you get on Anti Hero?
I don’t know. Shit happens.
Street Body, tailslide. Photo: Morford
Have you been in the van with new guy Chris Pfanner yet?
I’ve known Pfanner for a minute. He’s down!
How long were you on the Indy tour?
Julien bought me a bus ticket like 12 hours before we left, and Tony Trujillo and I rode out to Colorado to meet those guys. They let me tag along ’til we got back home; I think it was like 20 days.
How many beers would you say P-Stone consumes on any given day?
You can’t keep count; it’s impossible.  I’ll say he’s rarely caught without one.
What's your favorite bridge park?
Channel, probably.
The Body heats it up with a back tail. Photo: Morford
Partying all night, skatin' all day. You get stuck at this shit park in Reno and try to grind it. Photo: Hammeke
I’ll name a bridge park, and you tell me the first skater that comes to mind. Burnside.
Dorfous.
WSVT.
Peter Hewitt.
Bordertown.
Tony Miorana.
Channel St.
Lil’ Robbie.
Peabody would rather be fishin'—wait, someone already coined that one. Photo: Morford
Who’s the best skater to ever skate the face of the earth?
The best you can’t say, but Cards is up there.
If you were going to kill yourself, how would you do it?
Gainer off the Golden Gate Bridge.
Last words?
Do your own shit.
Now that's a proper frontside rock.

---

by Michael Burnett
﻿So what exactly is Emesh, and when did it come into existence?
You can probably answer that one. Emesh is the combination of…there’s probably a better word than combination…it’s the synthesis? The symbiosis? Well, that’s when two things exist together, and they can’t exist separately. So I suppose Emesh is the symbiosis of emo and hesh. We brought the new genre into the world over a weekend trip to Ripon.
Rifle off some Emesh constituents...are there any examples of Emesh situations you can offer up?
Listening to Radiohead while drinking PBR. Reciting poetry while skating Washington Street. Skating a backyard pool while painting a watercolor of it.
Would you consider yourself to be more of an Emesh or Semo (Sensitive-Emo) type?
Emesh some days. I try not to consider myself anything on an everyday basis.
One of your new boards in the Zero catalog is emblazoned with the text, “DIV LIVES.” Who is DIV and why is he covered in blood?
That’s DIV. He called me up yesterday asking where I got the idea. It was supposed to be a surprise and I’d send him the board in the mail, but he found out before I got a chance. DIV is a plumber; he’s more weighted towards the Hesh side of the Emesh spectrum. He’s covered in blood because he was wrestling around one night and got head butted. My friend Alex had this sauna suit made of aluminum foil; you put it on and just sweat a lot. Div tried to rip it off, and Alex didn’t take kindly to that. So they started wrestling, fell over, and Alex sort of head butted him a little bit.
Backside Smith
I’ve seen the photo that Zero filmer Matt Winterberg uses to get his white balance, and he says that’s just how people roll at the Livingston Park. The weathered Polaroid is of a weathered girl attempting to lick her own armpit, is that the gnarliest thing you’ve ever seen at the park?
Oh, the Viet-gnarm pit? That was actually taken in Darby in the North of England while urban camping in a park. Livingston? It’s most likely a fight between a metaler and a hip hopper. I can say with a fair degree of certainty that the fight probably started over booze and music.
How was working with O’Dell on the Epicly Later’d episode? How did you plan out the day?
I don’t know. He called me up and he wanted to do one, so we did one. I woke up, called up O’Dell, and went to Zero. We just did a normal day… Probably skate up at Black Box then go down to Washington Street.
On an average day, who do you think puts back more brewskis, Stu Graham or P-Stone?
P-Stone. P-Stone lives for beer. Whereas for Stuart, beer can be his downfall.
Speaking of P-Stone, it seems as if the ska-doosh epidemic is spreading like wildfire—a drunken wildfire. What’s the game all about?
Ask P-Stone. I don’t know, I don’t know what that is. I’m opting out of that game.
Now that you’ve been animated, put in a video game, and featured on MTV commercial breaks for EA’s Skate, are you planning on making any drastic life changes? Blacked out Range Rover with Kicker sub-woofers? Lifted truck for you and all your bros to chill in?
I might get all of those things and move to Tahoe. Tahoe or the OC.
I’ve heard the game is insanely difficult; have you played it at all?
I have the game, I have no system to play it on.
Did they need to kit you up in the ball suit to capture your movements?
No. No ball suit.
Are you your favorite character on the game?
No, you can’t play yourself. You make up your own character and go skating and meet the pros who give you different challenges to do. You have to unlock certain parts of the city to meet new people.
Does fake Rattray have any moves that real Rattray doesn’t?
Fake Rattray is all together a better skateboarder.
How were the X-Games?
Amazing. The street qualifiers was like the best demo I’ve ever seen. I didn’t have my skateboard. I didn’t have my trick board. I was just cruising through.
With Osiris’ Feed the Need on deadline and premiering November 2nd, it seems as if everyone has been putting the finishing touches on their parts. Would you say you’ve gotten your ghetto back?
Explain. I’m not quite sure about the ghetto. I’d say that getting your ghetto back just means skating a harsh spot and coming through. So every now and again I get my ghetto back.
Air to fakie
I’m assuming your ghetto was in full grasp when you noseblunted Clipper some time ago. The shirt you had on was a bold fashion statement. Was that the inner ghetto channeled into clothing, or was that just your everyday kit?
It was a combination of events that all came together in the right time and place in the space-time continuum. I found the shirt at Ross dress for less. Or actually, Marshals Clothing Outlet. Regardless, it was just meant to be.
Would you say your formal education has had any play in your career as a professional skateboarder?
It helped me appreciate living the skateboard life. It really gave me a good perspective on how lucky I am to be where I am and not stuck doing something else.
Who’s the toughest Scot and the toughest American?
William Wallace is a pretty tough representative for Scotland. I’m not gonna say Sigourney Weaver. She’s pretty tough, but I think it could be tougher. I can’t say Bruce Willis either, or Van Damme. Chuck Norris, of course. When Chuck Norris falls into water, he doesn’t get wet—the water gets Chuck Norris.
Who would win in a fight, the Gilamesh, the Ogo Pogo, or the Loch Ness Monster?
The Chupacabra would swoop in and just take them all.
Do you have any secret talents you’d like the world to know about?
Secret talents are secret.
I hear you’re turning 23 over the weekend. What are you gonna do?
Yep, the big two-three. It’s a good one. I don’t know, probably go skateboarding or something.

---

Posted: April 13th, 2006
by Schmitty
Years skateboarding:
9 years.
Sponsors:
Krooked skateboards, es footwear, spitfire wheels, thunder trucks, pitcrew skateshop, roughneck hardware, matix clothing.
Birthplace:
Downingtown Pennsylvania.
Nicknames:
B Dub, Bob Wo.
When I wake up I:
Lay in bed for another good hour.
For breakfast I:
Eat a peanut butter and jelly (grape) sandwich. Usually it's not breakfast time anymore.
For inspiration I:
Watch skate videos.
My daily skatespot is:
Pulaski Park.
Usually I skate with:
Zack Lyons, Daniel Kim, Chris Hall; basically everyone at Pulaski.
In the car I:
Listen to T.I, Lil Wayne, Dip Set...
After skating I:
Kick it with the crew, get something to eat.
On TV I watch:
If anything, Animal Planet... but I don't have time for much TV.
For dinner I eat:
Ruth Chris Steakhouse.
At night:
I party.
When I need some lovin' I:
Cuddle with my girl.
Before I go to sleep I:
Chill with my girl in bed.
In bed I:
Dream about skateboarding usually.
An easy frontside 5.0 for Mr. Worrest. Photo: Zaslavsky
TOP 3's
Spots?
Pulaski, Welfare banks, Frisco Bart Bench
Music?
T.I., Jeezy, Dip Set
Women?
My boo Leah, My mom, My sister Michelle
Skaters?
Buzenitz, Pappalardo, Puig
Video parts?
Koston - Falling down, Brian Wenning - Photosynthesis, Dill - Snuff
Movies?
The Hills Have Eyes, Rambo 2, Mothman Prophecies
Drinks?
Milk, orange juice, Budweiser
Advice/Last Words?
Who knew on your wrist you could fit a whole pound of diamonds?

---

Posted: August 30th, 2005
by Schmitty
Recently, I had the pleasure of meeting and traveling with Alex Horn
due to mutual friends and the love of the shred. We just got back from a two-week stint in Oregon. Navarrette told me that ol’ A Horn once spent his whole per diem check ($900) on $.99-cent increments of candy. I don’t doubt it. Alex rules, and to watch him skate makes you understand the difference between those who have style and those who don’t.
How did you get the nickname Cranston?
I guess it was from the first 88 road trip. We went to some indoor go-cart racing a bit hammered and somehow Peter, Neil and I had some fake names for the race. I was this dude Senator Allen Cranston, Peter was Senator Peter Ueberroth, and I think Neil was Dean Starr. So after that night those guy's started calling me Senator Cranston, then it just got dropped to Cranston. I believe that is how it started. We were just getting loaded and those names spawned, I guess.
So what’s up with the revamp of Creature?
Frankenstein Zion?
Who is on the team?
Navarrette, Partanen, Shaggy, Cody Boat, Josh Perkins, Alex Perelson, Baby Sad Eyes, Joker, Little Chewy, and more I think.
When can we see Creature decks on the walls of skateshops?
I think right after the tradeshow, but I am not the guy to talk to about that. Darren knows more.
Who are you sponsors?
Creature, Vox shoes, Indy flow, Pacific Drive skateshop. (Thanks to all of you for everything!)
Out of all the parks you went to on your recent tour, which one was your favorite?
I had a lot of fun at Westminster, CO, and this other one in Buhl, Idaho. There are a lot of fun parks being built right now it seems. I'm hyped.
Talk about the Orcas Challenge?
The ol’ Orcas Challenge, let’s see, it was late and someone was talking about swimming out to this buoy and back for 100 bucks. I butted in like "I’ll do it right now for a 100 bucks." It didn't apply to me because they were talking to someone else, but Mumford said he had $50, and $20 or $30 more dollars got scrounged up so it was on. I was in the lake earlier and that water was a lot warmer, so I was thinking it was okay, so I jumped in was went full speed. After a little bit I realized my lung capacity was fading fast so I U-turned and made it back feeling lightheaded, but was I fine. The ocean water was way colder than I thoughtit was going to be so I bagged a possible drowning for 80 bucks, basically.
How many brews do you think P-Stone drank on your trip?
I just asked Darren about it and we came to a humble conclusion that it was in the range of maybe 275 brews in a two week spread. P-stone can drink super good and still maintain. He rules.
What was gnarlier, swimming at Orcas at night or crashing into Red on motorbikes?
I would have to say the near mangle at Red's zone, just because I didn't really know what was happening when we crossed paths. I just heard a bike coming from somewhere and the next thing you know we almost T-boned but got out clean enough. My leg got caught up a little but that's it.
What kind of stuff did you listen to on tour in the van?
Everyone had CDs and there was an iPod or two so we had some different stuff. Some GG Allin, Gism, Jerky Boys, Crank Yankers. I got harshed a lot for putting on lots of reggae tracks but we had a bunch of stuff to get it going.
Top five shredders out there that get you stoked?
Jimmy Acosta, Neil Blender, Lance Mountain, Dan Drehobl, John Cardiel, Steve Bailey, and most of all the Hesh Crew. You said five but I had to put in a few more. Oh yeah, Jason Jesse!
You got a funny Navarrette experience to share?
Every time he drinks tequila I think would be the answer.
The infamous frontside Cranston crail block at Burnside
P-Stone said to ask you about your recent Peru trip?
Oh yes. I love Peru; I want to see more of South America soon. I was talking with P-stone and Hewitt about heading to Ecuador to skate Quito and then to Machu Picchu to chill out for a bit, but those guy's had other stuff going on so we went on our own missions. Preston went to Israel, I split on my mission, and Pete was…wherever he was. I spent about a month down there just seeing a lot of cultural zones, taking it easy, took a five-day mission to Machu Picchu, and was completely destroyed afterwards. It was such a steep and savage climb I was struggling to walk for the next couple days. The Inca Trail is really heavy but insanely worth it. Long, long story short; I barely made it back with my only pair of shoes, pants, boxers, one shirt, one sock, one dollar—literally—and all my bags filled with random Peruvian trinkets and gifts for my friends and family and another makeshift suitcase from cardboard that was like five-feet long packed to the jimmy with ponchos, a killer antique six shooter, and just real random stuff from the Witch's Market like a dried up Llama fetus for good luck…? So that was part of the trip and I had an insane time. If you can pull it you should try to check it out some time.
What are your future plans?
I think I am just going to go on as many skate trips as possible with Darren. We are in Portland right now and will be here for another two weeks and hopefully get involved in some upcoming Vox Shoe tours. Basically I just want to keep having fun with the crew and just skate as much as I can while this is all possible. Thanks.

---

by Schmitty
So what’s been going on lately?
Well, right now I’m at the airport. I’m on my way to England, Germany and maybe France, with Jason Adams and Adam Alfaro and some other Black Label nerds.
How was the trip across country with Rhino and Loaf? What were some highlights?
Oh man, it was bitchin’, dude. Those dudes can consume more beer then anybody. Rhino drives more then anyone, so I get to be a complete retard and just sit in the car. It was great, man. We ended up skating more than 30 pools—parks, ditches, and just crazy shit. No rain and no cops for three weeks, and Preston’s bad breath. It was cool, I can’t complain. We got tons of shit done. It was fun.
What’s the story behind “Crooked Arm?”
When I was born, on my right arm my two bones are grown together into one bone. You really can’t tell unless you know me. It’s just something to laugh and make jokes about. Dave Carnie wrote something in some magazine and it kind of just stuck.
Does it prevent you from doing certain grabs?
Yeah. I can’t turn my arm a certain way. My old man was trying to hand me some logs one time to carry and I couldn’t turn my wrist over a certain way, so I can’t grab stalefish. But who gives a flying fuck. I’d love to be able to do it, but at this point I’d have to get an extended arm to do that shit. I could get laser surgery; but hey, no thank you.
What’s your favorite skatepark?
I don’t really have a favorite skatepark. I think the shit that is going down in Oregon and Washington is the shit. Grindline and Dreamland, those two guys are building the sickest shit out. Their parks are my favorite parks. I got my local spot in Wilmington, NC, called the Skatebarn. It’s fun too.
What do you enjoy outside of skateboarding?
I enjoy drawing, cruising around on my bike, hanging out with my old lady, drinking, partying, having a good time. Rock and roll. I love cooking too.
What do you like to cook?
Oh man, I can make spaghetti, lasagna, tacos. I ain’t no vegetrendian, but I try to cook all healthy stuff. I got some good recipes.
What would you tell someone who was going to NC for the first time?
You need to go to Wilmington or Raleigh or the mountains, because the rest of the state is dead. I’d say go to Wilmington, ’cause we got some shit to skate and everyone is pretty down to earth there. The chicks speak in southern accents.
Lien disaster-just do it! Photo: Rhino
That’s a turn on?
Yeah, to some people. It kind of floats their boat.
Old hanger or the outdoor one?
Oh man, that’s a weird question. I’d say probably the old one. I’ve seen some crazy shit go down. Old one, new one—it’s all cool. I don’t really go down there that much anymore. I used to go down there a lot when I was a kid. Dudes are still skating it though. I’d say both, they’re both cool.
Why is P-Stone the best filmer to tour around with? Give me your best P-Stone story?
Oh man, I got too many stories to tell. Dude won’t go to sleep. Then he falls asleep with a beer in one hand and a burger in the other. We got photos to prove it. The coolest thing about Preston and Rhino is that they’re just free floating spirits. Preston’s the best; you go on a trip with him and the dude doesn’t complain. He’s just down. He can drink all day, film or skate all day, and go all night and he won’t complain about it. If you tell him he is going to sleep outside, he’ll be like “Oh, that’s good for my back.” We got to sleep with some ravers that listen to disco music all night? He’ll be like “That’s cool, good for my brainwaves.” He’ll come up with some answer that makes every situation awesome. He’s also an  awesome tour guide. I’ve been to Europe with him two or three trips and I love it because I can be mindless. He’ll get us around and he can communicate with anyone. He’s really good at it.
What’s your drink of choice?
Southern Comfort on ice. So-Co.
How’s the new company working out with Jason Adams?
Sick man. Stoked! Jason and Lucero are my bosses. They’re just letting me do what I want and be me, letting me skate, providing me a new place to be. It’s great when your boss is your buddy because we are on the same brainwaves. I’m not dealing with anymore old dudes that are sitting in the office counting stairs. I’m dealing with my buddy that knows how I skate and what I do, and is completely content with it. It works out way to my advantage. I don’t have to listen to anymore corporate goons telling me how to skate.
What would your dream session be?
There are too many dudes that you can get in there. Dream session…I don’t know. Any of the crew—throw Drehobl in there, Preston, Rhino, my roommate Gut, my brother Clint, the Cold Crew. Any of the raw dogs—Senn, Jason, Hewitt, Cardiel, Sam Hitz, Tony, the whole Six Guns thing. Throw us all in a van and send us to skateparks. But I don’t know, there are too many answers for that one. All the gnar dogs.
Where at? Louisville?
I don’t know. Louisville is sick, but I’m more into Oregon because some of those parks, no one is around so you can drink some brews and picnic all day.
What do you hope to do this summer?
I’m just going to go on some Black Label tours, doing some stuff for Nike, hopefully hooking up on some crazy trip and plan some time in Oregon. I got plans to move to San Jose in September or October. I’m going to move out there for a year and just change it up. Me and my old lady are going to move out there. I’ll be psyched. So I can just skate with the Kid, come up and skate with you guys and all the new parks. Fresno is only like two hours away, The City is 45 minutes away, and Oregon is only like six hours. So I can’t wait to get out there and get on some shit.
Want to list your sponsors?
Oh, hell yeah! Anyone that is giving me money I want them to get there’s. I’m psyched on all my sponsors for supporting me; it’s Six Guns, Independent, Nike, 1984, NC Skates, Smith, and anyone I forgot. They are all killer ’cause they support what I do.
Last words?
Get a crew, grab some rock and roll music, get on the road, and start skating.

---

Posted: July 17th, 2006
by Michael Burnett
How old are you?
I’m from Texas, but I live in Colorado.
Any nicknames?
Not that I can think of…
Sponsors?
Tron, Foundation, Volcom, Vans, and 303 boards.
How did you get hooked up on Foundation?
Tony Silva hooked that shit right the fuck up.
Who do you shred with usually?
All my friends from Colorado, like the 1086 crew.
How gnarly was Shanghai skatepark?
That place sucked—psyche! It was so fun, minus the fact that they made it in the middle of nowhere.
What was the sickest thing you saw go down?
Tony did a Primo stall on flat and a pressure flip, too.
Any funny Phelper stories on the trip?
Everywhere we went he did some thing really funny, like when he took this hat from a cop at the park and the cop didn’t do a damn thing.
You got Bad Shit on your iPod?
No, but will you send me some?
180 nosegrind
Do you spend more time at the skatepark or  on the streets?
Probably on the streets man!   180 nosegrind
Five skaters that get you hyped?
Super Bank Sam, Ryan Millard, Alex Bland, Alex Steinmen aka Playdoh, and Clay the Sackface.
Dream session?
Denver park, any day.
What music have you been listening to?
Yabo Katz Explosion—you need to hear that shit.
What’s the girl situation? One love or player status?
I got a kid on the way.
Who do you think will get Skater of the Year this year?
Carlos Ruiz.   You’re locked in a closet for four days.
Besides food and water, what’s the one thing you want with you?
Some hot-ass chick.
Thanks?
I thank all my family and friends, skateboarding, and God.

---

by Schmitty
I've known Dylan and his life for a couple of years now
, and my beautiful blue eyeballs have watched young Dylan morph from a shrink-wrapped, skeleton-physiqued, brace-faced pre-teen to an un-brace-faced, shrink-wrapped skeleton-physiqued teen. I think the only thing that's changed since I've known him is that he might (and I strongly emphasize might) have hit puberty.  I'm not even near a full on legitimate grown up just yet, but I think I might actually be older than Dylan's Dad. Dylan's a young fella, but he's already got some good mentals in that little dome of his—and is one of the rare few kids that seems to be influenced by the more quality things in life. Unfortunately there's not enough up and coming kids that have a noodle like his. Dylan seems to be progressing like a mofo at all types of skating. The last couple of times that I've skated with Dylan in the last couple of years he’s definitely grown some more inches and now has more power, which is giving him a proper-ass style. I'm a picky bastard and don't back too many people thoroughly in the skateboard world but I'm backing Dylan, which is a hard stamp of approval to get from me. Well hot diggity, Dylan, you've now been blessed by "The Me." —Tim O'Connor
Fantasy spots:
Chicken's pool, all of Oz, LBC bump, Jim's ramp in SF
Local spots:
HB Park bank to curb, my old mini-ramp
Nicknames:
No nicknames, please.
Street names:
This question sucks.
Pets:
My dog Harley
Tunes:
Floyd, Syd Barrett, John Frusciante, BIG, Nakka, and Led Zeppelin
Trips:
All trips to Europe
Movies:
The Trip, Snatch, Casino, Scarface, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas
Skate vids:
Misled Youth, Underachievers, Sight Unseen
Tré-flip
. Photo: Rhino
Cheesy reality or regular TV shows:
"Tilt” (I find myself watching celebrity poker every night), and "South Park," "Family Guy", and "Drawn Together"
Video games:
"Red Dead Revolver," "Man Hunt," and "NFS Underground 2"
Complaints:
Skating
Grinds:
Lowrider grinds
Bros:
Sometimes before ’hos
Honeys:
They're all good
Rides:
A good trip
Toys:
My lap tizzy
Boards:
8" by 31"
Hobbies:
Eating and sleeping
Bad habits or Guilty pleasures:
No comment
Shout outs:
Don't come to HB Park
Words to live by:
Know when to hold ’em, know when to fold ’em.

---

by Schmitty
"Josh might have "gotten" me kicked off but you kicked me off. Fuck you Tod."
Schmitty: How did you feel to be the first pro addition to Gonz's new company Krooked?
What do I say? I was stoked. I couldn’t have wished for anything better. It’s really cool, I like "working" with deluxe and Mark. I needed a change.
S: Are you guys really planning on stealing some riders from other companies?
I don’t know what Mark’s plans are. I’d say it’s probably a good idea. We’re gonna keep it tight though.
S: Should Flip be nervous?
Krooked rules and everyone knows it. I’d say those guys must be pretty happy over there.
S: What happened to Freedumb?
I was over it. I took a shot and it sucked.
S: Guns and Roses or Thin Lizzy?
Guns and Roses we’re good but I’ve never been much of a fan. I like Thin Lizzy, I just bought Chinatown today and it’s pretty sick. I’m listening to the Traveling’ Wilburys right now.
S: Out of the following people, who do you think have the best questions?
I think they all pretty much sucked. No. Is anyone even going to read this thing? If you’re reading this stop, I’m an idiot and you’ll be a little bit dumber if you continue. I just hope you can pull together some halfway decent photos.
Team frontside air.
Greg Carroll: When are you going to quit smoking?
Probably when I’m dead. I’d like to. I never want to be old, I think being elderly would suck. Ideally I’ll have a heart attack around sixty before I get Alzheimer’s or Parkinson’s disease or something shitty like that.
GC: How does it feel to be one of the most unique skateboarders of all time?
The only reason I skate the way I do is because I suck and have no other choice. Can’t flip, do a wallride.
GC: Did you know that you are my favorite skater?
I bet you say that to all the dudes.
GC: How come you only pack one shirt, one pair of underwear and one pair of pants when you go on a month long tour?
The first tour I went on I brought so much useless shit and it sucked having to lug it all over. I had a huge duffel bag and a backpack and I didn’t even use any of the crap that I brought. I don’t even bring music, usually I go on trips with dudes that I like and I’d rather hang out and shoot the shit then zone out with a pair of headphones on. Leave the toys at home. I have my board.
GC: When are you going to get Mark Gonzales to have and art show with you?
I always said I’d never be in an art show. I don’t really like them and I don’t consider myself an artist. My friend Mike is having one at his hair salon in February and he asked me to be in it and I told him I would. I have a few unfinished painting that I’ve been thinking about finishing up but I’m lazy. They’re all painting of people fucking. I think Mark is supposed to be in it too but I’m not sure. Whatever.
GC: Have you ever heard of deodorant?
Yea, that’s the shit you do laundry with, right. I use old spice but it doesn’t stop the nicotine from seeping out.
Beanplant to fakie at one of the only skateable spots left at Berkeley's infamous tennis court banks.
Tod Swank: So Dan if Josh Beagle didn't kick you off Foundation you might of not been riding for Krooked today. Do you think he deserves a thank you?
Josh might have "gotten" me kicked off but you kicked me off. Fuck you Tod. No, I don’t blame you. I sucked then and I still suck now. It all worked out good, I can’t complain.
TS: One of our reasons for letting you go back then was we thought you would be too busy with school which was a stupid reason anyway. So what ever happened with school for you?
I was pretty bummed when you kicked me off but I got over it, I got even with that ad in my firing line. You really helped me out a lot and helped me get my foot in the door. Plus the boards were always really cool and I was stoked to be getting free shit. It’s all pretty dumb, school sucked. I was going to a shitty art school and I wasn’t into it, I dropped out as soon as I turned pro so I could travel.
TS: You have been a dedicated skateboarder for a long time. What's your grip on skateboarding today?
Does it even matter? It’s cool, some shit’s gay but I don’t really care. I just try to do my own thing and stay outside of it as much as I can, maybe make some kind of a positive influence. Shralp it up.
TS: Have you ever seen the Mothman Prophecies?
I just watched it. Pretty weird shit. I tried to watch that one and I didn’t even make it ten minutes. I heard Richard Gere put a gerbil up his ass. I also heard that they had to pump Rod Stewart’s stomach because it was so full of cum. Supposedly he was sucking off his whole band. I just watched Punch drunk Love a few weeks ago. It was awesome.
Keith Cochrain: How do you feel about posing half nude in Big Brother?
I thought it was pretty funny but I guess some people just are not into the whole gay cowboy scene.
KC: Do you contribute your alcoholism in the past to your girlfriend?
I never considered myself an alcoholic. I just drink a lot when I don’t have a broad to take care of me.
KC: Did you really sack your balls hard enough for them to turn black and blue?
McKenney had the black and blue balls, I split mine open on a 180 stalefish and needed to get stitches.
KC: Do you claim Boston or SF?
I grew up in Maine and live in Berkeley so I can’t really claim either. I’d like to move back to SF but I have the park over here now so I probably won’t. Hopefully the Chromium 12 will be nice and magically go away so I can skate there again.
KC: Do you miss me?
Yea, let’s go get drunk and pick up a couple hookers sometime.
Big frontside air at the Tilt Mode TF. 2008 calendar cover, no big deal. Photo: Brook
Tim Upson: Do you think many kids out there today know who Phil Shao was?
Some of them do, some don’t, and fuck it. Who cares, we knew him and loved him and new how rad he was and I’m just thankful for that. Life sucks sometimes. He said it himself, we had our Idols and they’ll have there’s, little kids don’t need to know who Jay Adams was or what he did, they know what Rowley’s doing. It’s just progression.
TU: If you had to pick, would you give up the fingerflip or the kickflip?
I’ve been sucking at both of them but I’d give up the fingerflip. I’m pretty much over ‘em anyway.
TU: Who would you rather be stranded on an island with: Gonz, Benny or Collinson?
They’d all be pretty good dudes to be stranded on an island with but I’d rather be stranded with a hot chick. It could be like blue lagoon and I’d go fishing or hunt wild boar everyday and she could pick coconuts and berries then we’d come home to the hut and cook and then we’d bone all night. If I ever knocked her up we could sacrifice the baby to the gods so we would always have food and then we’d make out and bone some more and I’d tell her she was really hot.
Mark Gonzales: What are your favorite clothes to wear?
I think I’m going for the "I don’t care" look.
MG: In movies do you root for the good guy or the bad guy or does it depend on the movie?
Clint Eastwood was a pretty bad guy in the Unforgiven and at the end he rides into town and kills all the pussy townspeople and it’s pretty cool too see them all die.
MG: Has a frog ever showed up in any of your dreams?
I always have nightmares about them dying. It sucks. They’ll always starve to death or I’ll step on them and they’ll all be squished on the floor.
MG: Did you graduate from high school?
I felt like I owed it to my parents, all I had to do was graduate and then I could do whatever I wanted. Now, if I ever need to get a job a McDonald’s I could maybe make manager one day.
MG: Any historical figures you admire or would like to mention?
Not really, fuck ‘em, fuck em’ all. I’m a pessimist and it sucks. Ghengis Khan's army, the Mongol hoards had this practice where they would all gang up on an enemy they wanted to conquer and they’d all stab the person and then have sex with the wounds all at the same time. They would gang bang the person to death. Hitler’s doctors would do experiments on innocent Jews. They’d test them like people do to animals now. Feeding them poison and putting shit on their bodies or in they’re eyes. They’d do things like cut out a persons eyes or chop off there arms and then try to put them on another person that they’d do the same thing to. The Japanese did the same shit to the Chinese during World War II and they didn’t even say they we're sorry. History sucks, they say if we don’t understandour history we’re doomed to repeat it. I think we are anyway.
MG: When it comes to ladies, are you the cat or the mouse?
I’m more like a retarded mute dung beetle.
MG: Would you ever kick it with a girl that skates, like date; you know cause there are some pretty ones coming up!
I’ve seen a lot of them that I’d like to slip it in. I’m down to kick it but I wouldn’t skate with them, that would suck. "Oh Dan, that air was so radical." "Yea, I know it was baby."

---

